## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » [Bachelor Degree in Informatics
Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-
engineering.md) » Bachelor's Thesis

  * [Enrolment](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\enrolment.md)
  * [Curriculum](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum.md)
  * [Faculty](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\faculty.md)
  * [Bachelor's Thesis](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\bachelors-thesis.md)
    * [Thesis offers](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\degree-final-project\\thesis-offers.md)
    * [Upcoming defences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\degree-final-project\\upcoming-defences.md)
  * [Timetables](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\timetables.md)
  * [Exams](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\exams.md)
  * [Academic Regulations](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\academic-regulations.md)

The bachelor's thesis (TFG) is due to be completed in the eighth semester. It
is worth 18 ECTS credits, 3 of them are awarded after completing the thesis
management course and 15 correspond to the workload of the thesis. It may be
undertaken at the FIB, in a company (in Spain or abroad) or at another
university (in Spain or abroad).  
  
The FIB signed numerous [agreements with companies](en\\companies\\industrial-
practices.md) and universities abroad that enable students to complete their
bachelor's thesis.

__

### Academic Regulations

[Bachelor's thesis
regulations](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\normativa-tfe-fib-
ca.pdf.md)

**What you should do and when** :

__**Registration** : when you have passed all the compulsory subjects and at
least three compulsory specialisation subjects.

__**Enrolment** : when you have passed all the compulsory subjects, whether
common or specialisation subjects.

### Steps of your TFG

  * [**1**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Registration](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

  * [**2**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Enrolment](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

  * [**3**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Initial milestone](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

  * [**4**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Defence period](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

  * [**5**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Progress review milestone](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

  * [**6**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Final report](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

  * [**7**](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)
  * [Defence](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-enginyeria-informatica\\treball-de-fi-de-grau.md)

__

### Award FIB Alumni to the best thesis

FIB Alumni awards the best bachelor's thesis of Informatics engineering.
[Check the rules](es\\estudios\\becas-y-ayudas\\convocatorias-de-
premios\\premio-fib-alumni.md).

**TFG assessment**. Assessment of cross-disciplinary competences shall be done
on the [basis of the
criteria](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg_indicadors_rubriques_eng.html.md)
listed in bachelor's thesis assessment rubrics, as well as
[start](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\initial-milestone-
rubric.html.md), [follow-up](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\follow-up-
milestone-rubric.html.md) and
[end](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\final-milestone-rubric.html.md)
indicators.

### Tips on how to write your TFG

__

### Consells per al teu TFG

The FIB published a [guide for
students](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg_guia_estudiant_cat.pdf.md),
containing a set of questions that the student should consider at every step
of the evaluation.

Also, it can be helpfull the link [6 steps to make your TFG / TFM a
success](en\\estudiants\\6-passos-que-teu-tfg\\tfm-sigui-exit.md) _._

__

### Anàlisi de sostenibilitat

A chapter of the thesis should contain a sustainability analysis of the
project. [Recommendations](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg-
sustainability-report-en-2022.pdf.md), [explanatory videos](playlist.md) and
the sustainability report examples:
[AKMA](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg_sost_exemple_akma.pdf.md)
and
[inventarios](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg_sost_exemple_inventarios.pdf.md).

## Procedure for the Bachelor's Thesis

From an academic point of view, any successful TFM requires fluent
communication with your supervisor / tutor with periodic meetings. From an
administrative point of view, most of the procedure is performed via
[Racó](index.md), from where you will be guided throughout the process. This
document highlights the main administrative steps of the TFM but it is not
meant replace the need to read the master’s thesis regulations.

__During the progress milestone is the only moment where it is possible to
update your master thesis title and description.

### **TFG registration**

Registering the TFG is necessary to inform the faculty you agreed on a
bachelor thesis topic and you will start working on it.

__És**important tenir en compte** , que es podrà iniciar el treball en el TFG
un cop s'hagi realitzat correctament la inscripció i es compleixin els
requisits següents:

  * L'estudiantat podrà inscriure el TFG quan hagi superat el mínim de crèdits establerts a la normativa.
  * La inscripció s'ha de realitzar un quadrimestre abans de formalitzar la matrícula.

S'haurà d'inscriure el TFG a través del [Racó](index.md), en una nova pestanya
que es mostrarà a les persones que compleixin els requisits descrits
anteriorment. La inscripció ha de ser acceptada per la persona supervisora o
tutora del TFG.

__**Importantly** , you cannot start working on your thesis until you meet the
following requirements and successfully register it:

  * Students may register for the bachelor’s thesis when they have passed the minimum of credits stated in the regulation.
  * Registration needs to happen one semester before enrolment.

You must register your TFG via [Racó](index.md), in a new tab that appears to
students meeting the requirements described above. The inscription must be
accepted by the TFG supervisor or tutor.

__**Registration period**

1st semester: Thursday 05 September 2024 to Saturday 01 February 2025 - 23:59  
2nd semester: Monday 10 February 2025 to Friday 11 July 2025 - 23:59

### **TFG enrolment**

You can enrol in the TFG when you have passed the minimum of credits stated in
the regulation.

If you registered your TFG in the previous semester, during your enrolment, a
new course will appear to enrol the TFG.

__**Enrolment period**

2nd semester (registrations done during the 1st semester of 2024-2025 academic
year): 3 February 2025  
1st semester (registrations done during the 2nd semester of 2024-2025 academic
year): TBC

### **Initial milestone**

**Only for students of the degree in Informatics Engineering**

GEP (Project Management) is a blended learning course linked to the bachelor's
degree that is taught for four weeks at the beginning of the academic year.
**By registering for the TFG you are automatically enrolled in GEP**.

The aim of the course is to learn how to plan the work to be done during the
TFG. The student will have to generate a report with the objectives, the
planning, the scope, etc. This report will have to be presented as an academic
act within the GEP course. The course itself will not be face-to-face except
for this presentation, which exceptionally can also be done via
videoconference.

[GEP Guide](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\guia-gep-raco-fib.pdf.md)

The presentation will be evaluated with a rubric by the project director and
the GEP faculty and will be part of the final grade of the project. Also
within this evaluation, a date will have to be chosen for the follow-up
meeting with the director.

[Rubric for the initial milestone (evaluation of the GEP
presentation)](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg_rubrica_fita_inicial.html.md)

### **Defence period**

At this point you must choose when to defend your thesis at [Racó](index.md).
For each enrolment there are two defence periods:

**Ordinary period**

TFG enrolled in the 1st semester: Monday 20 January 2025 to Friday 24 January
2025  
TFG enrolled in the 2nd semester: Wednesday 25 June 2025 to Tuesday 01 July
2025

**Extraordinary period**

TFG enrolled in the 1st semester: dilluns 12 maig 2025 to divendres 16 maig
2025  
TFG enrolled in the 2nd semester: dilluns 21 octubre 2024 to divendres 25
octubre 2024

The extraordinary defence period requires paying the academic taxes (not the
credits).

**__Important** : you must discuss with your supervisor / tutor a feasible and
reasonable plan. Therefore, you must choose the defence period when you are
certain about meeting the targeted period. If the deadline comes and you are
experiencing problems to meet the ordinary defence period you are advised to
choose the extraordinary defence period.

### **Progress review milestone**

This milestone is meant to reflect the status of your TFM and the chances to
properly defend your thesis on time. Without conducting this milestone on time
you will not be allowed to defend (regardless of the defence period chosen).

Before the deadline set in Racó, you must upload to [Racó ](index.md)a
document, agreed with the supervisor or tutor, with the following sections:

  * Fulfillment of the work plan and objectives
  * Adjustments made and justification for these changes
  * Work plan for completing the master’s thesis

The supervisor / tutor must accept the document and assess. The assessment
includes the sections in the specific regulations of the degree or, failing
that, the following aspects:

  * Autonomy in carrying out the thesis work
  * Autonomy in writing the thesis
  * The work plan developed and work carried out to date
  * Communication with the thesis supervisor or tutor

This assessment can be modified in the final milestone.

**Deadline for the follow up meeting**

**Ordinary period**

TFM enrolled in the 1st semester: Thursday 12 December 2024 - 13:00  
TFM enrolled in the 2nd semester: Thursday 22 May 2025 - 13:00

**Extraordinary period**

TFM enrolled in the 1st semester: Thursday 03 April 2025 - 13:00  
TFM enrolled in the 2nd semester: Thursday 19 September 2024 - 13:00

**__** Be aware that by the progress review deadline your supervisor / tutor
must have accepted and assessed your progress.

### **Final report**

After completing the progress review milestone, the next step is to upload the
TFG final report via [Racó](index.md).  
There is a strict deadline to submit the final report **one week before your
defence** (check [Racó](index.md) to know the deadline).

**__Importantly,** your supervisor / tutor must accept the bachelor’s thesis
report before the set deadline. Failing to meet the deadline will result in
your automatic defence withdrawal.

The report is free format. It is mandatory to include:

  * Cover page. It is mandatory to use the cover (front page) automatically generated by [Racó](index.md) in your final report. Just use the service available in [Racó](index.md) to generate it with your TFG metadata. You must also include specific information about your degree, as specified in the regulations.
  * a summary of the work (or abstract) of 1 or 2 pages in Catalan, Spanish and English, and, 
  * include an analysis of sustainability and ethical implications according to the agreement of the [Governing Council of 07-2023](ca\\consell-de-govern\\consell-de-govern\\sessio-07-2023-del-consell-de-govern\\comissio-docencia-i-politica-academica-pendent-celebracio\\informacio-de-la-guia-per-incorporar-lanalisi-de-sostenibilitat-i-implicacions-etiques-en-els-tfe\\informacio-de-la-guia-per-incorporar-lanalisi-de-sostenibilitat-i-implicacions-etiques-en-els-tfe\\@@display-file\\visiblefile\\Guia%20Informe%20Sostenibilitat%20TFG_TFM_versi%C3%B3%20UPC.pdf.md).

The specific regulations for each degree programme may determine the minimum
sections required. As a guideline, it is recommended that the report includes
the following sections:

  * Cover page
  * Summary
  * Index
  * Introduction, motivation and objectives
  * State of the art
  * Specification and design of the solution
  * Development of the proposal/technique/work that has been carried out
  * Experimentation and evaluation of the proposal/technique/work
  * Sustainability analysis and ethical implications
  * Conclusions
  * List of references used
  * Annexes with complementary information

### **TFG defense**

The student must defend the thesis in a public session in front of an
evaluation committee. The evaluation committee shall be designated at least
fifteen days before the date chosen to defend the TFM. In the following days
after being appointed, the commission will communicate the precise date and
place for the defence. The evaluation committee will have access to the
progress review and final reports. The thesis evaluation is a numeric mark
between 0 and 10.

### Related articles

  * [A Proposal to Develop and Assess Professional Skills in Engineering Final Year Projects](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfb-preprint-a-proposal-to-develop-and-assess-professional-skills-in-engineering-final-year-projects.pdf.md) (English). International Journal in Engineering Education. Vol. 34, No. 2(A), pp. 400–413, 2018. ISSN 0949-149X.
  * [Todos mis estudiantes acaban el TFG y en el tiempo previsto](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg-article-todos-mis-estudiantes-acabanel-tfg-y-en-el-tiempo-previsto.pdf.md) (Spanish). ReVisión, ISSN 1989-1199, Vol 8, Num. 3. pp. 31-46, septiembre 2015. 
  * [El método socrático como guía del Trabajo de Fin de Grado](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg-article-metodo-socratico-tfg-2015-1.pdf.md) (Spanish). ReVisión, ISSN 1989-1199, Vol 8, Num. 1. pp. 53-61, enero 2015. 
  * [Evaluación del Trabajo Final de Grado](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg-article-jenui2013-evaluacion-tfg.pdf.md) (Spanish). XIX Jornadas de Enseñanza Universitaria de la Informática, JENUI 2013. Páginas 303-310. Castelló de la Plana, Julio de 2013. ISBN: 978-84-695-8051-6. 
  * [La evaluación de competencias en los trabajos Fin de Estudios](index.php.md) (Spanish). IEEE RITA, Revista Iberoamericana de Tecnologías de Aprendizaje. Vol. 5, número 3, pp 107-114. ISSN 1932-8540. Agosto 2010.
  * [Guidelines for the final year project assessment in engineering](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\tfg-article-guidelines-for-the-final-year-project-assessment-in-engineering-fie2009.pdf.md) (English). 39th ASEE/IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference, FIE2009. San Antonio, Texas (USA), October 2009, ISBN 978-1-4244-4714-5, ISSN 0190-5848, pág. M2J-1 – M2J-5

## You may also be interested in

[ Degree in Informatics Engineering Timetables ](en\\studies\\bachelors-
degrees\\informatics-engineering\\timetables.md)

[](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\informatics-engineering\\timetables.md)

[ Degree in Informatics Engineering Exams ](en\\en\\studies\\bachelors-
degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\exams.md)

[](en\\en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-
engineering\\exams.md)

[ 2024-2025 Bachelor's degrees Calendar ](sites\\fib\\files\\calendari-
academic-2024-2025-graus.pdf.md)

[](sites\\fib\\files\\calendari-academic-2024-2025-graus.pdf.md)

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-
engineering\\bachelors-thesis.md)

