## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » [Bachelor Degree in Data Science
and Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-
and-engineering.md) » [Curriculum](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-
degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum.md) » Competences

  * [Syllabus](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum\\syllabus.md)
  * [Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Competences for degree subjects](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum\\competences-degree-subjects.md)

  * [Transversal Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Generic Technical Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Technical Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)

## Transversal Competences

### TRANSVERSALS

  * **CT1**  
Entrepreneurship and innovation. Know and understand the organization of a
company and the sciences that govern its activity; Have the ability to
understand labor standards and the relationships between planning, industrial
and commercial strategies, quality and profit.

  * **CT2**  
Sustainability and Social Commitment. To know and understand the complexity of
economic and social phenomena typical of the welfare society; Be able to
relate well-being to globalization and sustainability; Achieve skills to use
in a balanced and compatible way the technique, the technology, the economy
and the sustainability.

  * **CT3**  
Efficient oral and written communication. Communicate in an oral and written
way with other people about the results of learning, thinking and decision
making; Participate in debates on topics of the specialty itself.

  * **CT4**  
Teamwork. Be able to work as a member of an interdisciplinary team, either as
a member or conducting management tasks, with the aim of contributing to
develop projects with pragmatism and a sense of responsibility, taking
commitments taking into account available resources.

  * **CT5**  
Solvent use of information resources. Manage the acquisition, structuring,
analysis and visualization of data and information in the field of specialty
and critically evaluate the results of such management.

  * **CT6**  
Autonomous Learning. Detect deficiencies in one's own knowledge and overcome
them through critical reflection and the choice of the best action to extend
this knowledge.

  * **CT7**  
Third language. Know a third language, preferably English, with an adequate
oral and written level and in line with the needs of graduates.

  * **CT8**  
Gender perspective. An awareness and understanding of sexual and gender
inequalities in society in relation to the field of the degree, and the
incorporation of different needs and preferences due to sex and gender when
designing solutions and solving problems.

### BASIC

  * **CB1**  
That students have demonstrated to possess and understand knowledge in an area
of ??study that starts from the base of general secondary education, and is
usually found at a level that, although supported by advanced textbooks, also
includes some aspects that imply Knowledge from the vanguard of their field of
study.

  * **CB2**  
That the students know how to apply their knowledge to their work or vocation
in a professional way and possess the skills that are usually demonstrated
through the elaboration and defense of arguments and problem solving within
their area of ??study.

  * **CB3**  
That students have the ability to gather and interpret relevant data (usually
within their area of ??study) to make judgments that include a reflection on
relevant social, scientific or ethical issues.

  * **CB4**  
That the students can transmit information, ideas, problems and solutions to a
specialized and non-specialized public.

  * **CB5**  
That the students have developed those learning skills necessary to undertake
later studies with a high degree of autonomy

## Generic Technical Competences

### GENERIC

  * **CG1**  
To design computer systems that integrate data of provenances and very diverse
forms, create with them mathematical models, reason on these models and act
accordingly, learning from experience.

  * **CG2**  
Choose and apply the most appropriate methods and techniques to a problem
defined by data that represents a challenge for its volume, speed, variety or
heterogeneity, including computer, mathematical, statistical and signal
processing methods.

  * **CG3**  
Work in multidisciplinary teams and projects related to the processing and
exploitation of complex data, interacting fluently with engineers and
professionals from other disciplines.

  * **CG4**  
Identify opportunities for innovative data-driven applications in evolving
technological environments.

  * **CG5**  
To be able to draw on fundamental knowledge and sound work methodologies
acquired during the studies to adapt to the new technological scenarios of the
future.

## Technical Competences

### TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES

  * **CE1**  
Skillfully use mathematical concepts and methods that underlie the problems of
science and data engineering.

  * **CE2**  
To be able to program solutions to engineering problems: Design efficient
algorithmic solutions to a given computational problem, implement them in the
form of a robust, structured and maintainable program, and check the validity
of the solution.

  * **CE3**  
Analyze complex phenomena through probability and statistics, and propose
models of these types in specific situations. Formulate and solve mathematical
optimization problems.

  * **CE4**  
Use current computer systems, including high performance systems, for the
process of large volumes of data from the knowledge of its structure,
operation and particularities.

  * **CE5**  
Design and apply techniques of signal processing, choosing between different
technological tools, including those of Artificial vision, speech recognition
and multimedia data processing.

  * **CE6**  
Build or use systems of processing and comprehension of written language,
integrating it into other systems driven by the data. Design systems for
searching textual or hypertextual information and analysis of social networks.

  * **CE7**  
Demonstrate knowledge and ability to apply the necessary tools for the
storage, processing and access to data.

  * **CE8**  
Ability to choose and employ techniques of statistical modeling and data
analysis, evaluating the quality of the models, validating and interpreting
them.

  * **CE9**  
Ability to choose and employ a variety of automatic learning techniques and
build systems that use them for decision making, even autonomously.

  * **CE10**  
Visualization of information to facilitate the exploration and analysis of
data, including the choice of adequate representation of these and the use of
dimensionality reduction techniques.

  * **CE11**  
Within the corporate context, understand the innovation process, be able to
propose models and business plans based on data exploitation, analyze their
feasibility and be able to communicate them convincingly.

  * **CE12**  
Apply the project management practices in the integral management of the data
exploitation engineering project that the student must carry out in the areas
of scope, time, economic and risks.

  * **CE13**  
(End-of-degree work) Plan and design and carry out projects of a professional
nature in the field of data engineering, leading its implementation,
continuous improvement and valuing its economic and social impact. Defend the
project developed before a university court.

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-
engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)

