## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » [Bachelor Degree in Informatics
Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-
engineering.md) » [Curriculum](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-
degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum.md) » Competences

  * [Syllabus](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\syllabus.md)
  * [Reassessment](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\reassessment.md)
  * [Specializations](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\specializations.md)
  * [Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Competences for degree subjects](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences-degree-subjects.md)

Under the new EHEA framework, graduates must possess a series of technical
competences closely linked to the demands of the professional areas associated
with the degree, and a group of generic competences that should be acquired
across all disciplines and specialisations.  
  
Competences are a combination of knowledge, skills (intellectual, practical,
social, etc), attitudes and values that enable individuals to solve problems
and to carry out tasks in a specific academic, professional or social context.  
  
A detailed description of generic competences defined by the UPC and of
specific competences set by FIB are given in the following pages.

  * [Transversal Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Technical Competences](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Technical Competences of each Specialization](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)

## Transversal Competences

### ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION

  * **Responsable**  
JOAN CARLES GIL MARTIN

  * **G1**  
To know and understand the organization of a company and the sciences which
govern its activity; capacity to understand the labour rules and the relation
between planning, industrial and business strategies, quality and benefit. To
develop creativity, entrepreneur spirit and innovation tendency.

    * **G1.1**  
To have initiatives and acquire basic knowledge about organizations and to
familiarize oneself with the instruments and techniques of generation and
management of ideas, which allow solving known problems, and generate
opportunities.

    * **G1.2**  
To have initiatives which generate opportunities, new objects or solutions,
with a process and market implementation vision, and to imply other team
members in projects which have to be developed (capacity to perform
autonomously).

    * **G1.3**  
To have strong decision-making skills. To use knowledge and strategic skills
for the creation and management of projects, apply systematic solutions to
complex problems, and design and manage the innovation in the organization. To
demonstrate flexibility and professionalism when developing her work.

### SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL COMMITMENT

  * **Responsable**  
JOAN CLIMENT VILARÓ, JOSE M. CABRÉ GARCIA

  * **G2**  
To know and understand the complexity of the economic and social phenomena
typical of the welfare society. To be capable of analyse and evaluate the
social and environmental impact.

    * **G2.1**  
To analyse the global situation in a systematic and critic way. To be capable
of recognising the social and environmental implications of the professional
activity of computer science. To understand the role of engineering as a
profession, its role in the society and the ethical and professional
responsibility of the technical informatics engineer. To value the compromise
with equal opportunities principles, peace culture and democratic values.

    * **G2.2**  
To apply sustainability criteria and the deontological codes of the profession
in the design and evaluation of technological solutions. To identify the
necessity to apply the legislation, regulations and normatives, specially the
ones affecting the technical informatics engineer profession. To analyse and
evaluate the environmental impact of the technical solutions in the ICT field.

    * **G2.3**  
To take into account the social, economical and environmental dimensions, and
the privacy right when applying solutions and carry out project which will be
coherent with the human development and sustainability.

### THIRD LANGUAGE

  * **Responsable**  
ANTONIA SOLER CERVERA

  * **G3**  
To know the English language in a correct oral and written level, and
accordingly to the needs of the graduates in Informatics Engineering. Capacity
to work in a multidisciplinary group and in a multi-language environment and
to communicate, orally and in a written way, knowledge, procedures, results
and ideas related to the technical informatics engineer profession.

    * **G3.1**  
To understand and use effectively handbooks, products specifications and other
technical information written in English.

    * **G3.2**  
To study using resources written in English. To write a report or a technical
document in English. To participate in a technical meeting in English.

    * **G3.3**  
To conduct an oral presentation in English and answer questions from the
audience. To work effectively in an international context, communicating
orally in English with people of different nationalities.

### EFFECTIVE ORAL AND WRITTEN COMMUNICATION

  * **Responsable**  
SILVIA LLORENTE VIEJO

  * **G4**  
To communicate with other people knowledge, procedures, results and ideas
orally and in a written way. To participate in discussions about topics
related to the activity of a technical informatics engineer.

    * **G4.1**  
To plan the oral communication, respond properly to the formulated questions
and redact texts of a basic level with orthographic and grammatical
correction. To structure correctly the contents of a technical report. To
select relevant materials to prepare a topic and synthesize the contents. To
respond properly when asked.

    * **G4.2**  
To use strategies to prepare and perform oral presentations and write texts
and documents with a coherent content, adequate structure and style and a good
orthographic and grammatical level. To perform an oral presentation in front
of a limited audience. To choose properly the contents, style, timing and
format of the presentation. To be capable of communicating effectively with
the user in a non-technical language, and understand its needs.

    * **G4.3**  
To communicate clearly and efficiently in oral and written presentations about
complex topics, becoming adapted to the situation, the type of audience and
the communication goals, using the strategies and the adequate means. To
analyse, value and respond adequately to the questions of the audience.

### TEAMWORK

  * **Responsable**  
ALICIA AGENO PULIDO

  * **G5**  
To be capable to work as a team member, being just one more member or
performing management tasks, with the finality of contributing to develop
projects in a pragmatic way and with responsibility sense; to assume
compromises taking into account the available resources.

    * **G5.1**  
Capacity to collaborate in a unidisciplinary environment. To identify the
objectives of the group and collaborate in the design of the strategy and the
working plan to achieve them. To identify the responsibilities of each
component of the group and assume the personal compromise of the assigned
task. To evaluate and present the own results. To identify the value of the
cooperation and exchange information with the other components of the group.
To exchange information about the group progress and propose strategies to
improve its operation.

    * **G5.2**  
To plan the objectives, operation rules, responsibilities, agenda and review
procedure of the work. To identify conflicts, negotiate and solve them in a
effective way. To adapt oneself to different kinds of groups (big/small,
technical/mixed, same space/at distance). To interact efficiently and promote
the participation with other group members.

    * **G5.3**  
To identify the roles, skills and weaknesses of the different members of the
group. To propose improvements in the group structure. To interact with
efficacy and professionalism. To negotiate and manage conflicts in the group.
To recognize and give support or assume the leader role in the working group.
To evaluate and present the results of the tasks of the group. To represent
the group in negotiation involving other people. Capacity to collaborate in a
multidisciplinary environment. To know and apply the techniques for promoting
the creativity.

### INFORMATION LITERACY

  * **Responsable**  
GLADYS MIRIAM UTRERA IGLESIAS

  * **G6**  
To manage the acquisition, structuring, analysis and visualization of data and
information of the field of the informatics engineering, and value in a
critical way the results of this management.

    * **G6.1**  
To identify the own needs of information and to use the available collections,
locations and services to design and execute simple searches suited to the
thematic scope. To classify the gathered information and synthesize it. To
value the intellectual property and cite properly the sources.

    * **G6.2**  
After identifying the parts of an academic document and organizing the
bibliographic references, to design and execute a good strategy to make an
advanced search with specialized information resources, selecting the
pertinent information taking into account relevance and quality criteria.

    * **G6.3**  
To plan and use the necessary information for an academic essay (for example,
the final project of the grade) using critical reflection about the used
information resources. To manage information in a competent, independent and
autonomous way. To evaluate the found information and identify its
deficiencies.

### AUTONOMOUS LEARNING

  * **Responsable**  
JOAN ARANDA LÓPEZ

  * **G7**  
To detect deficiencies in the own knowledge and overcome them through critical
reflection and choosing the best actuation to extend this knowledge. Capacity
for learning new methods and technologies, and versatility to adapt oneself to
new situations.

    * **G7.1**  
Directed learning: perform the assigned tasks in the planned time, working
with the indicated information sources according to the guidelines of the
teacher or tutor. To identify the progress and accomplishment grade of the
learning goals. To identify strong and weak points.

    * **G7.2**  
Guided learning: perform assigned tasks according to basic orientations given
by the teaching staff; to decide the needed time for each task, including
personal contributions and expanding the indicated information sources.
Appropriate use of study guides. Capacity to take decisions based on objective
criteria (experimental, scientific or simulation available data). Capacity to
evaluate your own strong and weak points, and perform consequently.

    * **G7.3**  
Autonomous learning: capacity to plan and organize personal work. To apply the
acquired knowledge when performing a task, in function of its suitability and
importance, decide how to perform it and the needed time, and select the most
adequate information sources. To identify the importance of establishing and
maintaining contacts with students, teacher staff and professionals
(networking). To identify information forums about ICT engineering, its
advances and its impact in the society (IEEE, associations, etc.).

### APPROPIATE ATTITUDE TOWARDS WORK

  * **Responsable**  
CARME MARTIN ESCOFET

  * **G8**  
To have motivation to be professional and to face new challenges, have a width
vision of the possibilities of the career in the field of informatics
engineering. To feel motivated for the quality and the continuous improvement,
and behave rigorously in the professional development. Capacity to adapt
oneself to organizational or technological changes. Capacity to work in
situations with information shortage and/or time and/or resources
restrictions.

    * **G8.1**  
To have a wide vision of the possibilities of the career in the field of
informatics engineering. To have a positive and receptive attitude towards the
quality in the development of the profession.

    * **G8.2**  
To be rigorous in the professional development. To be motivated and have a
proactive attitude for the quality in the work. Capacity to adapt oneself to
organizational or technological changes. Capacity to work in situations with
information shortage and/or time and/or resources restrictions.

    * **G8.3**  
To be motivated for the professional development, to face new challenges and
the continuous improvement. To have capacity to work in situations with a lack
of information.

### REASONING

  * **Responsable**  
KARINA GIBERT OLIVERAS

  * **G9**  
Capacity of critical, logical and mathematical reasoning. Capacity to solve
problems in her study area. Abstraction capacity: capacity to create and use
models that reflect real situations. Capacity to design and perform simple
experiments and analyse and interpret its results. Analysis, synthesis and
evaluation capacity.

    * **G9.1**  
Critical, logical and mathematical reasoning capacity. Capacity to understand
abstraction and use it properly.

    * **G9.2**  
Analysis and synthesis capacity, capacity to solve problems in its field, and
to interpret the results in a critical way. Abstraction capacity: capacity to
create and use models which reflect real situations. Capacity to design and
perform simple experiments and to analyse and interpret their results in a
critical way.

    * **G9.3**  
Critical capacity, evaluation capacity.

## Technical Competences

### COMMON TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES

  * **CT1**  
To demonstrate knowledge and comprehension of essential facts, concepts,
principles and theories related to informatics and their disciplines of
reference.

    * **CT1.1A**  
To demonstrate knowledge and comprehension about the fundamentals of computer
usage and programming, about operating systems, databases and, in general,
about computer programs applicable to the engineering.

    * **CT1.1B**  
To demonstrate knowledge and comprehension about the fundamentals of computer
usage and programming. Knowledge about the structure, operation and
interconnection of computer systems, and about the fundamentals of its
programming.

    * **CT1.2A**  
To interpret, select and value concepts, theories, uses and technological
developments related to computer science and its application derived from the
needed fundamentals of mathematics, statistics and physics. Capacity to solve
the mathematical problems presented in engineering. Talent to apply the
knowledge about: algebra, differential and integral calculus and numeric
methods; statistics and optimization.

    * **CT1.2B**  
To interpret, select and value concepts, theories, uses and technological
developments related to computer science and its application derived from the
needed fundamentals of mathematics, statistics and physics. Capacity to
understand and dominate the physical and technological fundamentals of
computer science: electromagnetism, waves, circuit theory, electronics and
photonics and its application to solve engineering problems.

    * **CT1.2C**  
To use properly theories, procedures and tools in the professional development
of the informatics engineering in all its fields (specification, design,
implementation, deployment and products evaluation) demonstrating the
comprehension of the adopted compromises in the design decisions.

  * **CT2**  
To use properly theories, procedures and tools in the professional development
of the informatics engineering in all its fields (specification, design,
implementation, deployment and products evaluation) demonstrating the
comprehension of the adopted compromises in the design decisions.

    * **CT2.1**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the principles, methodologies
and life cycles of software engineering.

    * **CT2.2**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the characteristics,
functionalities and structure of data bases, allowing an adequate use, design,
analysis and implementation of applications based on them.

    * **CT2.3**  
To design, develop, select and evaluate computer applications, systems and
services and, at the same time, ensure its reliability, security and quality
in function of ethical principles and the current legislation and normative.

    * **CT2.4**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the needed tools for storage,
processing and access to the information system, even if they are web-based
systems.

    * **CT2.5**  
To design and evaluate person-computer interfaces which guarantee the
accessibility and usability of computer systems, services and applications.

  * **CT3**  
To demonstrate knowledge and comprehension of the organizational, economic and
legal context where her work is developed (proper knowledge about the company
concept, the institutional and legal framework of the company and its
organization and management)

    * **CT3.1**  
To understand and explain reasonably the basic economical concepts, the
objectives and the instruments of economical politics and their influence in
the economical activity.

    * **CT3.2**  
To know and describe the main processes of the functional areas of a company
and the existent links between them, which make possible the coordination and
integration in a group.

    * **CT3.3**  
To be able to find and interpret basic information for evaluating the economic
environment of the organization.

    * **CT3.4**  
To know the basic financial concepts which allow valuing the costs and
benefits of a project or different alternatives, monitor a budget, control the
cost, etc.

    * **CT3.5**  
To identify the use possibilities and benefits which can be derived from an
application in the different business software typologies and existent ICT
services.

    * **CT3.6**  
To demonstrate knowledge about the ethical dimension of the company: in
general, the social and corporative responsibility and, concretely, the civil
and professional responsibilities of the informatics engineer.

    * **CT3.7**  
To demonstrate knowledge about the normative and regulation of informatics in
a national, European and international scope.

  * **CT4**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the basic algorithmic
procedures of the computer science technologies to design solutions for
problems, analysing the suitability and complexity of the algorithms.

    * **CT4.1**  
To identify the most adequate algorithmic solutions to solve medium difficulty
problems.

    * **CT4.2**  
To reason about the correction and efficiency of an algorithmic solution.

    * **CT4.3**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the fundamental principles and
the basic techniques of the intelligent systems and its practical application.

  * **CT5**  
To analyse, design, build and maintain applications in a robust, secure and
efficient way, choosing the most adequate paradigm and programming languages.

    * **CT5.1**  
To choose, combine and exploit different programming paradigms, at the moment
of building software, taking into account criteria like ease of development,
efficiency, portability and maintainability.

    * **CT5.2**  
To know, design and use efficiently the most adequate data types and data
structures to solve a problem.

    * **CT5.3**  
To design, write, test, refine, document and maintain code in an high level
programming language to solve programming problems applying algorithmic
schemas and using data structures.

    * **CT5.4**  
To design the programs¿ architecture using techniques of object orientation,
modularization and specification and implementation of abstract data types.

    * **CT5.5**  
To use the tools of a software development environment to create and develop
applications.

    * **CT5.6**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the fundamental principles and
basic techniques of parallel, concurrent, distributed and real-time
programming.

  * **CT6**  
To demonstrate knowledge and comprehension about the internal operation of a
computer and about the operation of communications between computers.

    * **CT6.1**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to manage and maintain computer systems,
services and applications.

    * **CT6.2**  
To demonstrate knowledge, comprehension and capacity to evaluate the structure
and architecture of computers, and the basic components that compound them.

    * **CT6.3**  
To demonstrate knowledge about the characteristics, functionalities and
structure of the Operating Systems allowing an adequate use, management and
design, as well as the implementation of applications based on its services.

    * **CT6.4**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply the characteristics,
functionalities and structure of the Distributed Systems and Computer and
Internet Networks guaranteeing its use and management, as well as the design
and implementation of application based on them.

  * **CT7**  
To evaluate and select hardware and software production platforms for
executing applications and computer services.

    * **CT7.1**  
To demonstrate knowledge about metrics of quality and be able to use them.

    * **CT7.2**  
To evaluate hardware/software systems in function of a determined criteria of
quality.

    * **CT7.3**  
To determine the factors that affect negatively the security and reliability
of a hardware/software system, and minimize its effects.

  * **CT8**  
To plan, conceive, deploy and manage computer projects, services and systems
in every field, to lead the start-up, the continuous improvement and to value
the economical and social impact.

    * **CT8.1**  
To identify current and emerging technologies and evaluate if they are
applicable, to satisfy the users needs.

    * **CT8.2**  
To assume the roles and functions of the project manager and apply, in the
organizations field, the techniques for managing the timing, cost, financial
aspects, human resources and risk.

    * **CT8.3**  
To demonstrate knowledge and be able to apply appropriate techniques for
modelling and analysing different kinds of decisions.

    * **CT8.4**  
To elaborate the list of technical conditions for a computers installation
fulfilling all the current standards and normative.

    * **CT8.5**  
To manage and solve problems and conflicts using the capacity to generate
alternatives or future scenarios analysed properly, integrating the
uncertainty aspects and the multiple objectives to consider.

    * **CT8.6**  
To demonstrate the comprehension of the importance of the negotiation,
effective working habits, leadership and communication skills in all the
software development environments.

    * **CT8.7**  
To control project versions and configurations.

## Technical Competences of each Specialization

### COMPUTER ENGINEERING SPECIALIZATION

  * **CEC1**  
To design and build digital systems, including computers, systems based on
microprocessors and communications systems.

    * **CEC1.1**  
To design a system based on microprocessor/microcontroller.

    * **CEC1.2**  
To design/configure an integrated circuit using the adequate software tools.

  * **CEC2**  
To analyse and evaluate computer architectures including parallel and
distributed platforms, and develop and optimize software for these platforms.

    * **CEC2.1**  
To analyse, evaluate, select and configure hardware platforms for the
development and execution of computer applications and services.

    * **CEC2.2**  
To program taking into account the hardware architecture, using assembly
language as well as high-level programming languages.

    * **CEC2.3**  
To develop and analyse software for systems based on microprocessors and its
interfaces with users and other devices.

    * **CEC2.4**  
To design and implement system and communications software.

    * **CEC2.5**  
To design and implement operating systems.

  * **CEC3**  
To develop and analyse hardware and software for embedded and/or very low
consumption systems.

    * **CEC3.1**  
To analyse, evaluate and select the most adequate hardware and software
platform to support embedded and real-time applications.

    * **CEC3.2**  
To develop specific processors and embedded systems; to develop and optimize
the software of these systems.

  * **CEC4**  
To design, deploy, administrate and manage computer networks, and manage the
guarantee and security of computer systems.

    * **CEC4.1**  
To design, deploy, administrate and manage computer networks.

    * **CEC4.2**  
To demonstrate comprehension, to apply and manage the guarantee and security
of computer systems.

### COMPUTER SCIENCE SPECIALIZATION

  * **CCO1**  
To have an in-depth knowledge about the fundamental principles and
computations models and be able to apply them to interpret, select, value,
model and create new concepts, theories, uses and technological developments,
related to informatics.

    * **CCO1.1**  
To evaluate the computational complexity of a problem, know the algorithmic
strategies which can solve it and recommend, develop and implement the
solution which guarantees the best performance according to the established
requirements.

    * **CCO1.2**  
To demonstrate knowledge about the theoretical fundamentals of programming
languages and the associated lexical, syntactical and semantic processing
techniques and be able to apply them to create, design and process languages.

    * **CCO1.3**  
To define, evaluate and select platforms to develop and produce hardware and
software for developing computer applications and services of different
complexities.

  * **CCO2**  
To develop effectively and efficiently the adequate algorithms and software to
solve complex computation problems.

    * **CCO2.1**  
To demonstrate knowledge about the fundamentals, paradigms and the own
techniques of intelligent systems, and analyse, design and build computer
systems, services and applications which use these techniques in any
applicable field.

    * **CCO2.2**  
Capacity to acquire, obtain, formalize and represent human knowledge in a
computable way to solve problems through a computer system in any applicable
field, in particular in the fields related to computation, perception and
operation in intelligent environments.

    * **CCO2.3**  
To develop and evaluate interactive systems and systems that show complex
information, and its application to solve person-computer interaction
problems.

    * **CCO2.4**  
To demonstrate knowledge and develop techniques about computational learning;
to design and implement applications and system that use them, including these
ones dedicated to the automatic extraction of information and knowledge from
large data volumes.

    * **CCO2.5**  
To implement information retrieval software.

    * **CCO2.6**  
To design and implement graphic, virtual reality, augmented reality and video-
games applications.

  * **CCO3**  
To develop computer solutions that, taking into account the execution
environment and the computer architecture where they are executed, achieve the
best performance.

    * **CCO3.1**  
To implement critical code following criteria like execution time, efficiency
and security.

    * **CCO3.2**  
To program taking into account the hardware architecture, using assembly
language as well as high-level programming languages.

### INFORMATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIZATION

  * **CSI2**  
To integrate solutions of Information and Communication Technologies, and
business processes to satisfy the information needs of the organizations,
allowing them to achieve their objectives effectively.

    * **CSI2.1**  
To demonstrate comprehension and apply the management principles and
techniques about quality and technological innovation in the organizations.

    * **CSI2.2**  
To conceive, deploy, organize and manage computer systems and services, in
business or institutional contexts, to improve the business processes; to take
responsibility and lead the start-up and the continuous improvement; to
evaluate its economic and social impact.

    * **CSI2.3**  
To demonstrate knowledge and application capacity of extraction and knowledge
management systems .

    * **CSI2.4**  
To demostrate knowledge and capacity to apply systems based on Internet
(e-commerce, e-learning, etc.).

    * **CSI2.5**  
To demostrate knowledge and capacity to apply business information systems
(ERP, CRM, SCM, etc.).

    * **CSI2.6**  
To demonstrate knowledge and capacity to apply decision support and business
intelligence systems.

    * **CSI2.7**  
To manage the presence of the organization in Internet.

  * **CSI3**  
To determine the requirements of the information and communication systems of
an organization, taking into account the aspects of security and compliance of
the current normative and legislation.

    * **CSI3.1**  
To demonstrate comprehension of the principles of risks evaluation and apply
them correctly when elaborating and executing operation plans.

    * **CSI3.2**  
To develop the information system plan of an organization.

    * **CSI3.3**  
To evaluate technological offers for the development of information and
management systems.

    * **CSI3.4**  
To develop business solutions through the deployment and integration of
hardware and software systems.

    * **CSI3.5**  
To propose and coordinate changes to improve the operation of the systems and
the applications.

  * **CSI4**  
To participate actively in the specification, design, implementation and
maintenance of the information and communication systems.

    * **CSI4.1**  
To participate actively in the specification of the information and
communication systems.

    * **CSI4.3**  
To administrate databases (CES1.6).

    * **CSI4.2**  
To participate actively in the design, implementation and maintenance of the
information and communication systems.

  * **CSI1**  
To demonstrate comprehension and apply the principles and practices of the
organization, in a way that they could link the technical and management
communities of an organization, and participate actively in the user training.

### SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SPECIALIZATION

  * **CES1**  
To develop, maintain and evaluate software services and systems which satisfy
all user requirements, which behave reliably and efficiently, with a
reasonable development and maintenance and which satisfy the rules for quality
applying the theories, principles, methods and practices of Software
Engineering.

    * **CES1.1**  
To develop, maintain and evaluate complex and/or critical software systems and
services.

    * **CES1.2**  
To solve integration problems in function of the strategies, standards and
available technologies

    * **CES1.3**  
To identify, evaluate and manage potential risks related to software building
which could arise.

    * **CES1.4**  
To develop, mantain and evaluate distributed services and applications with
network support.

    * **CES1.5**  
To specify, design, implement and evaluate databases.

    * **CES1.6**  
To administrate databases (CIS4.3).

    * **CES1.7**  
To control the quality and design tests in the software production

    * **CES1.8**  
To develop, mantain and evaluate control and real-time systems.

    * **CES1.9**  
To demonstrate the comprehension in management and government of software
systems.

  * **CES2**  
To value the client needs and specify the software requirements to satisfy
these needs, reconciling conflictive objectives through searching acceptable
compromises, taking into account the limitations related to the cost, time,
already developed systems and organizations.

    * **CES2.1**  
To define and manage the requirements of a software system.

    * **CES2.2**  
To design adequate solutions in one or more application domains, using
software engineering methods which integrate ethical, social, legal and
economical aspects.

  * **CES3**  
To identify and analyse problems; design, develop, implement, verify and
document software solutions having an adequate knowledge about the current
theories, models and techniques.

    * **CES3.1**  
To develop multimedia services and applications.

    * **CES3.2**  
To design and manage a data warehouse.

### INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIZATION

  * **CTI1**  
To define, plan and manage the installation of the ICT infrastructure of the
organization.

    * **CTI1.1**  
To demonstrate understanding the environment of an organization and its needs
in the field of the information and communication technologies.

    * **CTI1.2**  
To select, design, deploy, integrate and manage communication networks and
infrastructures in a organization.

    * **CTI1.3**  
To select, deploy, integrate and manage information system which satisfy the
organization needs with the identified cost and quality criteria.

    * **CTI1.4**  
To select, design, deploy, integrate, evaluate, build, manage, exploit and
maintain the hardware, software and network technologies, according to the
adequate cost and quality parameters.

  * **CTI2**  
To guarantee that the ICT systems of an organization operate adequately, are
secure and adequately installed, documented, personalized, maintained, updated
and substituted, and the people of the organization receive a correct ICT
support.

    * **CTI2.1**  
To manage, plan and coordinate the management of the computers infrastructure:
hardware, software, networks and communications.

    * **CTI2.2**  
To administrate and maintain applications, computer systems and computer
networks (the knowledge and comprehension levels are described in the common
technical competences).

    * **CTI2.3**  
To demonstrate comprehension, apply and manage the reliability and security of
the computer systems (CEI C6).

  * **CTI3**  
To design solutions which integrate hardware, software and communication
technologies (and capacity to develop specific solutions of systems software)
for distributed systems and ubiquitous computation devices.

    * **CTI3.1**  
To conceive systems, applications and services based on network technologies,
taking into account Internet, web, electronic commerce, multimedia,
interactive services and ubiquitous computation.

    * **CTI3.2**  
To implement and manage ubiquitous systems (mobile computing systems).

    * **CTI3.3**  
To design, establish and configure networks and services.

    * **CTI3.4**  
To design communications software.

  * **CTI4**  
To use methodologies centred on the user and the organization to develop,
evaluate and manage applications and systems based on the information
technologies which ensure the accessibility, ergonomics and usability of the
systems.

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-
engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)

