## Usted está aquí

[Inicio](/es) » [Estudios](/es/estudios) » [Grados](/es/estudios/grados) »
[Grado en Ingeniería Informática](/es/estudios/grados/grado-en-ingenieria-
informatica) » [Trabajo de Fin de Grado](/es/estudios/grados/grado-en-
ingenieria-informatica/trabajo-de-fin-de-grado) » Ofertas de proyectos

  * [Ofertas de proyectos](/es/estudios/grados/grado-en-ingenieria-informatica/trabajo-de-fin-de-grado/ofertas-de-proyectos)
  * [Próximas lecturas](/es/estudios/grados/grado-en-ingenieria-informatica/trabajo-de-fin-de-grado/proximas-lecturas)

[Consulta ofertas de otros estudios y especialidades](/es/formulario-ofertas-
proyectos)

Developing an application for virtual reality assisted rehabilitation

Especialidades

Computación

Resumen

_The goal of the project is to create an application that helps patients doing
rehabilitation exercises using virtual reality._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

PERE PAU VÁZQUEZ ALCOCER

Departamento

CS

Descripción

Virtual reality is becoming a tool for helping patients with several illnesses
(strokes, frozen shoulder...) to engage in the rehabilitation exercises.

The purpose of this project is the creation of a serious game that helps
patients to engage in rehabilitation exercises for the frozen shoulder.

If you are interested, do not hesitate to ask for more information. But
please, before doing so, check my "Prospective students" tab on my webpage.

Requisitos mínimos

Computer Graphics, OpenGL and shader programming.

\+ info

Emulation of multi-chip CPU systems with wireless interconnects

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores

Resumen

_In the NaNoNetworking Center in Catalunya (N3Cat, www.n3cat.upc.edu), we are
investigating the use of ultra-short range wireless communications an
alternative to current interconnects. In our EU project EWiC, we aim to
emulate chip-to-chip wireless communications within a computer. For that, we
will emulate the behavior of a multi-chip CPU with FPGAs, and connect them
wirelessly using Software-Defined Radios (SDR)._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

SERGI ABADAL CAVALLÉ

Departamento

AC

Descripción

A common trait of current computing systems is that their internal data
communication has become a fundamental bottleneck. Traditional interconnects
are insufficient and threatening to halt progress unless fast and versatile
communication alternatives are developed.

In the NaNoNetworking Center in Catalunya (N3Cat, www.n3cat.upc.edu), we are
investigating the use of ultra-short range wireless communications an
alternative to current interconnects. In our EU project EWiC, we aim to
emulate chip-to-chip wireless communications within a computer. For that, we
will emulate the behavior of a multi-chip CPU with FPGAs, and connect them
wirelessly using Software-Defined Radios (SDR).

N3Cat is looking for students wanting to acquire hands-on experience in the
programming and interconnection of FPGAs, and to participate in a cutting-edge
project to interconnect these FPGAs wirelessly. In more detail, the objectives
of the thesis are:

\- To help establishing the emulator and be able to simulate its behavior.  
\- To work in the implementation of adequate communication protocols for the
integration of wireless interconnects in the emulated multi-FPGA system.  
\- To assess the performance of the system via measurement campaigns.  
  

Requisitos mínimos

Students wanting to apply are required to have a notable student record.
Moreover, candidates are expected to be:  
\- Highly motivated and self-sufficient,  
\- Willing to learn and pay attention to detail,  
\- Aware of current wireless communications and networking trends,  
\- Proficient in English (both oral and written).  
\- Previous experience with FPGAs is valued.

\+ info

Effects of mixed-precision in vectorised computational kernels

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Computación

Resumen

_Many numerical methods discretise the temporal dimension through a time-
stepping loop. In such methods, partial differential equations (PDEs) are
approximated at each spatial coordinate where stencil computations take place.
This project consists of studying the effects of mixed-precision in some
computational kernels derived from a system of PDEs. The ultimate goal is to
improve their performance and assess their numerical precision._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

PEDRO JOSÉ MARTÍNEZ FERRER

Departamento

AC

Descripción

This Bachelor Thesis will take place at the Departament d'Arquitectura de
Computadors (DAC) in collaboration with the STAR group at the Barcelona
Supercomputing Center (BSC).

The System Tools and Advanced Runtimes (STAR) group at BSC focuses on research
crossing multiple software layers from OS, runtimes, and low-level APIs, to
programming models, tools, and applications. We run traditional HPC, AI, and
Data Analytics applications on massively parallel HPC and Cloud platforms.

Arithmetic operations derived from stencils calculations often benefit from
compiler optimisations and automatic vectorisation in the cases where the
compiler has enough information and the data structures are adequately aligned
and traversed. While classical applications rely on double precision
arithmetic operations with 64-bit floating-point precision, CPU manufacturers
have recently begun introducing native hardware support down to 16-bit
precision.

The student will be tasked to adapt single-precision computational kernels of
a variety of applications including, for example, the N-body problem, the heat
equation, and some computational stencil used in computational fluid dynamics
problems to their mixed-precision counterparts. Next, he or she will vectorise
the kernels with the aid of OpenMP pragma directives and identify other
optimisation opportunities like loop unrolling or cache blocking. Finally, the
student will asses the effects of mixed-precision and, in particular, any
potential accuracy losses.

The student will have the support from researchers within the STAR group,
which will provide them guidance throughout the duration of the thesis. The
GTP models will be evaluated using the computational resources of our group.

Requisitos mínimos

Basic knowledge of C/C++ and OpenMP.

\+ info

Evaluation of sparse matrix encodings in linear algebra iterative methods

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Computación

Resumen

_Numerical linear algebra plays an important role in the resolution of many
scientific and engineering problems. It emerges naturally from the application
of the finite difference, finite volume, and finite element methods to the
numerical resolution of partial differential equations (PDEs) often yielding
sparse linear systems. This project consists of studying the effects of sparse
matrix formats on such iterative methods. The ultimate goal is to improve
their performance and assess their effectiveness._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

PEDRO JOSÉ MARTÍNEZ FERRER

Departamento

AC

Descripción

This Bachelor Thesis will take place at the Departament d'Arquitectura de
Computadors (DAC) in collaboration with the STAR group at the Barcelona
Supercomputing Center (BSC).

The System Tools and Advanced Runtimes (STAR) group at BSC focuses on research
crossing multiple software layers from OS, runtimes, and low-level APIs, to
programming models, tools, and applications. We run traditional HPC, AI, and
Data Analytics applications on massively parallel HPC and Cloud platforms.

Some popular iterative methods employed in the numerical resolution of sparse
linear systems of equations are the Jacobi and Gauss¿Seidel (GS) algorithms.
These techniques are often combined with more sophisticated Krylov subspace
methods (KVMs) such as the conjugate gradient (CG) and the biconjugate
gradient stabilized (BiCGStab) algorithms. These KVMs rely primarily on sparse
matrix-vector (SpMV) calculations and can achieve better convergence rates
than Jacobi and Gauss¿Seidel.

The student will be tasked to adapt several sparse matrix encodings for the
SpMV operation. These formats include: coordinate format (COO), compressed row
storage (CRS), lower-diagonal-upper (LDU), modified sparse row (MSR), lower-
diagonal-upper (LDU), and lower-diagonal-upper CSR (LDUCSR). Next, he or she
will evaluate various iterative methods on both CPU and GPU architectures.
Finally, the student will asses the advantages and disadvantages of the
encodings for each particular architecture.

The student will have the support from researchers within the STAR group,
which will provide them guidance throughout the duration of the thesis. The
iterative methods will be evaluated using the computational resources of our
group.

Requisitos mínimos

Basic knowledge of C++, OpenMP, and CUDA.

\+ info

Quantisation of LLMs for modern CPU architectures

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Computación

Resumen

_Large language models (LLMs) are driven almost exclusively by industry
corporations. The size of the model is currently a major limitation and
quantisation arises as a technique to dramatically compress it, making it
possible to perform training and inference at the edge and fog computing. This
project consists of quantising LLMs to different low-bit precisions supported
by modern CPU architectures. The ultimate goal is to improve the performance
of these models._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

PEDRO JOSÉ MARTÍNEZ FERRER

Departamento

AC

Descripción

This Bachelor Thesis will take place at the Departament d'Arquitectura de
Computadors (DAC) in collaboration with the STAR group at the Barcelona
Supercomputing Center (BSC).

The System Tools and Advanced Runtimes (STAR) group at BSC focuses on research
crossing multiple software layers, from OS, runtimes, and low-level APIs, to
programming models, tools, and applications. We run traditional HPC, AI, and
Data Analytics applications on massively parallel HPC and Cloud platforms.

Machine learning (ML) has experienced a sustainable growth during the last
decade and more lately with the emergence of LLMs driven almost exclusively by
industry corporations. The size of such models is currently one of the major
limitations to deploy them on resource-constrained environments. CPU
manufacturers have begun introducing new hardware extensions such as VNNI and
AMX in order to accelerate mixed-precision calculations during ML training and
inference of low-bit precision LLMs.

The student will be tasked to quantise an already existing pretraining code
and measure the gains in performance as well as the potential issues like
accuracy losses. Next, he or she will optimize some of the most time-consuming
kernels by relying upon optimised third-party libraries. Several LLMs will be
analysed and compared, including some GPU implementations.

The student will have the support from researchers within the STAR group,
which will provide them guidance throughout the duration of the thesis. The
GTP models will be evaluated using the computational resources of our group.

Requisitos mínimos

Basic knowledge of C/C++, OpenMP, and CUDA.

\+ info

The Human Intranet and its Healthcare Applications

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Sistemas de Información Tecnologías de la
información

Resumen

_Recent advancements in nanotechnology have enabled the concept of the "Human
Intranet", where devices inside and on our body can sense and communicate,
opening the door to multiple exciting applications in the healthcare domain.
This thesis aims to delve into the computing, communication, and localization
aspects of the "Human Intranet" and how to practically realize them in the
next decade. _

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

SERGI ABADAL CAVALLÉ

Departamento

AC

Descripción

Recent advancements in nanotechnology have enabled the development of means
for sensing and wireless communications with unprecedented miniaturization and
capabilities, to the point that they can be introduced into the
gastrointestinal tract inside a pill or into the bloodstream in the form of
passively flowing nanomachines.

This opens the door to the idea of intra-body communication networks, this is,
a swarm of nanosensors inside the human body that use communications to
coordinate their actions to sense and localize specific events (lack of
oxygen, biomarkers, etc). This can lead to the development of applications
such as continuous monitoring of diabetes, detection and localization of
cancer micro-tumors, or early detection of blood clots. These possibilities
are currently investigated by our team at the N3Cat (www.n3cat.upc.edu).

In this context, We are looking for excellent and self-motivated individuals
who are eager to develop ideas that will have a positive societal or socio-
economic impact. In particular, the students will work on ONE of the following
areas:

  * Developing means of zero-power communications between nanosensors inside the human body.
  * Designing protocols for communications from nanomachines inside the human body and implants or antennas in the skin surface.
  * Studying mobility inside the gastrointestinal tract and human bloodstream towards creating mobility models for accurate simulation of intra-body communications.
  * Dimensioning the system (inferring the required nanomachine density) to achieve a particular sensing goal/application.
  * Developing AI schemes for the localization of events inside of the human body.

Requisitos mínimos

Students wanting to apply are required to have a notable student record.
Moreover, candidates are expected to be:  
\- Highly motivated and self-sufficient,  
\- Willing to learn, pay attention to detail,  
\- With a good level of English (both oral and written).  

\+ info

AI in cybersecurity at Nestle SOC

Especialidades

Computación Tecnologías de la información

Resumen

_UPC and Nestlé are offering a new position to develop the TFG in the field of
Machine Learning and Cybersecurity. This TFG will be fully funded (internship)
and carried out in collaboration with the Global Security Operations Center of
Nestlé and UPC._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

PERE BARLET ROS, IGNASI PAREDES OLIVA

Departamento

AC

Descripción

Cybersecurity is becoming an increasingly important challenge for all
companies and individuals alike. While big names used to be the main targets
in the past, as people's lives move online, anyone is nowadays a potential
target for any kind of cyber-attack, ranging from phishing to ransomware or
serious privacy issues. In order to fight against those ever-evolving threats,
Machine Learning is increasingly being used behind the scenes to design better
systems that are able of self-learning to boost detection rates and boost
overall resilience to unknown attacks. As AI-based solutions penetrate
products across the industry, a new kind of threat that is often overlooked is
becoming more and more prominent and dangerous: adversarial machine learning
(AML).  
  
AML focuses on designing specific inputs to deceive a previously trained
Machine Learning models into misclassifying them for a specific purpose. One
of the main flaws of any state-of-the-art Machine Learning or Deep Learning
algorithms is that they assume that the nature of the data they receive is
systematically benign, which is generally the case but does not hold true when
an adversarial input is received. The motivation behind altering a ML model
into thinking that, for example, a new sample is benign when in fact is
malicious can range from pure research to more serious real-life issues such
as an autonomous car wrongly classifying a stop sign (and thus provoking a
fatal accident) or a wrongly diagnosed disease because of a slightly
manipulated magnetic resonance image.  
  
This problem is no exception for Cybersecurity where companies wrongly assume
that once the last AI-based product is deployed in their network, their
employees are safe...

Requisitos mínimos

We are particularly interested in candidates with minimal AI/ML background.
Previous experience in Cybersecurity will be also highly valued.  
  
In order to apply, please send your CV and academic transcript (pdf can be
generated from the Raco) to both contacts:  
\- Ignasi Paredes (Nestlé):  
\- Pere Barlet (UPC):  

\+ info

Graph Neural Networks (GNNs): Uses, Architectures, Algorithms

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Computación Ingeniería del Software

Resumen

_This thesis aims to explore the possibilities of the new and less studied
variant of neural networks called Graph Neural Networks (GNNs). While
convolutional networks are good for computer vision or recurrent networks are
good for temporal analysis, GNNs are able to learn and model graph-structured
relational data, with huge implications in fields such as quantum chemistry,
computer networks, or social networks among others._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

SERGI ABADAL CAVALLÉ

Departamento

AC

Descripción

Seeing that not all neural networks fit to all problems, and that relational
data is present in a wide variety of aspects of our daily life, the main focus
of this thesis in N3Cat ([www.n3cat.upc.edu](http://www.n3cat.upc.edu/)) and
BNN-UPC ([www.bnn.upc.edu](http://www.bnn.upc.edu/)) is to explore the
possibilities of the Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), whose aim is to learn and
model graph-structured relational data. We are looking for students willing to
study the uses, architectures, and algorithms of GNNs. To this end, the
candidate will work on ONE of the following areas:

  * Uses: Applying GNNs in emerging application areas, including but not limited to (1) electroencephalogram (EEG) analysis for Alzheimer's disease detection, epilepsy classification, motor imagery; (2) acceleration of the compilation of quantum computing algorithms
  * Architectures: Investigating ways to accelerate the processing of GNNs in multiple computing platforms (CPU, GPU, accelerators).
  * Algorithms: Developing meta-learning data-driven models to estimate the accuracy of a GNN for a given graph, without training, through synthetic graph generation and correlation analysis.

Requisitos mínimos

Students wanting to apply are required to have a notable student record.
Moreover, candidates are expected to be:  
\- Highly motivated and self-sufficient,  
\- Willing to learn, pay attention to detail,  
\- Aware of current trends on machine learning, neural networks,  
\- With a good level of English (both oral and written).  
  
Excellent students may be eligible for a grant in this offer.

\+ info

Implementation of Annealed Importance Sampling for Restricted Boltzmann
Machines in CUDA

Especialidades

Computación

Resumen

_The student will have to implement the Annealed Importance Sampling for
Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) neural networks using python/CUDA, and
compare the performance against a standard CPU implementation._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

ENRIQUE ROMERO MERINO

Departamento

CS

Descripción

Gradient descend based RBM learning [1] is a computationally expensive
procedure that requires the computation of a probability normalization
constant (called the Partition function) that involves the computation of an
exponentially large number of terms. In order to bypass that, different
approximations exist, the most celebrated one being the Annealed Importance
Sampling algorithm [2], that can be parallelized in one of its dimensions.

The goal of this project ir to implement the Annealed Importance Sampling for
Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) using python/CUDA, and compare the
performance against a standard CPU implementation.

[1] "Training restricted Boltzmann machines: An introduction",  
Asja Fischer and Christian Igel, Pattern Recognition 47, 25-39 (2014).

[2] "Annealed Importance Sampling", Radford M. Neal, Statistics and Computing
11, 125-139 (2001).

\+ info

Estudio sobre el Efecto Franklin en Realidad Virtual

Especialidades

Computación

Resumen

_En psicología se conoce como "efecto Franklin" el fenómeno por el cual la
percepción que tenemos de una persona tiende a ser más favorable si
previamente la hemos ayudado. El objetivo de este proyecto es estudiar y
comprobar si dicho efecto también ocurre en realidad virtual, y en concreto
cuando tratamos con avatares virtuales. La idea es desarrollar una aplicación
de realidad virtual en la que probar este fenómeno (utilizando el motor de
juegos Unity), realizar el diseño experimental, e implementar la prueba piloto
del estudio de usuario. _

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

ALEJANDRO BEACCO PORRES

Departamento

CS

Requisitos mínimos

Asignaturas: IDI + Gráfics.  
Conocimientos mínimos de Unity.

\+ info

Accelerating Computing with Unconventional Chip Interconnects

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Computación Sistemas de Información Tecnologías de
la información

Resumen

_Computing systems are ubiquitous in our daily life, to the point that
progress is intimately tied to the improvements brought by new generations of
the processors that lie at the heart of these systems. A common trait of
current computing systems is that their internal data communication has become
a fundamental bottleneck and traditional interconnects are just not good
enough. This thesis aims to study how we can speed up architectures with CPUs,
GPUs, and ML accelerators thanks to unconventional (e.g. wireless)
interconnects._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

SERGI ABADAL CAVALLÉ

Departamento

AC

Descripción

Computing systems are ubiquitous in our daily life and have transformed the
way we learn, work, or communicate with each other, to the point that progress
is intimately tied to the improvements brought by new generations of the
processors that lie at the heart of these systems.

A common trait of current computing systems is that their internal data
communication has become a fundamental bottleneck. Traditional interconnects
are insufficient and threatening to halt progress unless fast and versatile
communication alternatives are developed.

In the NaNoNetworking Center in Catalunya (N3Cat, www.n3cat.upc.edu), we
envisage a revolution in computer architecture enabled by the use of wireless
communications (and other unconventional interconnect technologies) inside
computer chips, both classical and quantum. Of course, this vision comes with
its own set of challenges since we need to figure out the best way to
architect these systems with the new capabilities of the interconnects. In
this direction, the candidate will work on one of the following areas:

  * Analysis of the communications workload in nowadays computer chips and development of network-on-chip architectures to serve such traffic optimally.
  * Development of chiplet-based architectures in the classical domain in cache-coherent based systems, delving into the cache coherence protocol and the interface with the wireless interconnect.
  * Development of a supercomputer-in-a-package, a chiplet-based architecture based on message passing, delving into how to speed up the MPI primitives with wireless communications.
  * Study of scalable quantum computing systems enabled by wireless classical communication across the chips of the quantum computer and inside a cryogenic refrigerator.

Requisitos mínimos

Students wanting to apply are required to have a notable student record.
Moreover, candidates are expected to be:  
\- Highly motivated and self-sufficient,  
\- Willing to learn and pay attention to detail,  
\- Aware of current wireless communications and networking trends,  
\- Proficient in English (both oral and written).  
  
Excellent students may be eligible for a grant in this offer.  

\+ info

Scalable Quantum Computing Algorithms and Systems

Especialidades

Ingeniería de Computadores Computación Tecnologías de la información

Resumen

_Quantum computers promise exponential improvements over conventional ones due
to the extraordinary properties of qubits. However, quantum computing faces
many challenges relative to the scaling of the algorithms and of the computers
that run them. This thesis delves into these challenges and proposes solutions
to create scalable quantum computing systems._

Titulación

GEI

Dirección

SERGI ABADAL CAVALLÉ

Departamento

AC

Descripción

Quantum computers promise exponential improvements over conventional ones due
to the extraordinary properties of qubits. However, a quantum computer faces
many challenges relative to the movement of qubits which is completely
different from the movement of classical data. This thesis delves into these
challenges and proposes solutions to create scalable quantum computers enabled
by quantum communications, following the current European projects at N3Cat
([www.n3cat.upc.edu](http://www.n3cat.upc.edu)) on scalable quantum computing.  
  
The interested candidate will work in a group of several PhD students and in
collaboration with Universitat Politècnica de València, working in ONE of the
following areas:

  * Designing classical (bit) and quantum (qubit) communication protocols and network architectures for communications inside a quantum computer.
  * Assisting in the modeling of quantum short-range communications within our simulation framework, which is based on NetSquid.
  * Developing qubit mapping, partitioning, and routing for scalable quantum computers.
  * Study the use of AI to model quantum computers or develop qubit mapping and routing schemes.
  * Study the potential adaptation of the existing quantum computing architectures to specific quantum machine learning algorithms (QAOA, VQE, others)

Requisitos mínimos

\- Fonaments de computació quàntica.  
\- Atenció al detall.  
\- Bon expedient acadèmic.

\+ info

[Consulta ofertas de otros estudios y especialidades](/es/formulario-ofertas-
proyectos)

## Dónde estamos

Edificio B6 del Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA España  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](mailto:informacio@fib.upc.edu)

  * [__](/es/noticies/rss.rss)
  * [__](https://www.facebook.com/fib.upc)
  * [__](https://twitter.com/fib_upc)
  * [__](https://www.flickr.com/photos/fib-upc/albums)
  * [__](https://www.youtube.com/user/mediafib)
  * [__](https://www.instagram.com/fib.upc/)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-
fib.jpg)](http://suport.fib.upc.edu)

## Contacta con la FIB

Su nombre *

Su dirección de correo electrónico *

Asunto *

Categoría * \- Por favor, elija -Aulas, equipos y servicios informáticosBuzon
de sugerenciasFelicitacionesInformación AcadémicaInformación de
movilidadInformación de los másteresInformación general de la FIBNoticias al
web de la FIBQuejas

Mensaje *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Avíso legal sobre esta web](/es/aviso-legal-sobre-esta-web) \- Configuración
de privacidad

