## Usted está aquí

[Inicio](/es) » [Estudios](/es/estudios) » [Másteres](/es/estudios/masteres) »
[Máster en Inteligencia Artificial](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-
inteligencia-artificial) » FAQs

  * [Matrícula](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/matricula)
  * [Plan de estudios](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/plan-de-estudios)
  * [Professorado](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/profesorado)
  * [Normativa académica](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/normativa-academica)
  * [Trabajo de fin de máster](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/trabajo-de-fin-de-master)
  * [Horarios](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/horarios)
  * [Exámenes](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/examenes)
  * [FAQs](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-inteligencia-artificial/faqs)

What is Informatics?

    

Informatics is the study of the structure, the behaviour, and the interactions
of natural and engineered computational systems. At its simplest, informatics
is computer science, but it is also a much wider discipline covering:

  * Artificial Intelligence
  * Computer Science
  * Software Engineering
  * Cognitive Science

By studying informatics, you will look at how information is exchanged in its
widest sense, both artificially; in computers, but also in nature through the
human mind** _.​_**

How much mathematics is there? Why?

    

There is a fair bit of Mathematics, both explicitly and implicitly.
Informatics uses more _discrete_ mathematics (_eg_ logic, sets, graphs,
algebra probability _etc_) than many other disciplines. Continuous mathematics
(analysis, calculus) has important applications too.

Discrete mathematics is important both because its specific content is
sometimes needed in computing science topics (eg analysing algorithms, proving
things about programs, modelling real problems (eg with graphs)) and because
good ability in and familiarity with careful manipulation of symbolic
information is crucial.

What is the difference between this program and the MIRI?

    

The MIRI program is four semesters long, whereas the MAI program is three
semesters long and requires a written thesis. Both programs only admit
students with outstanding academic records. Compared to the MIRI program
(about 100 students) the MAI program is much smaller (50 students). There will
typically be about 100 MAI students at any one time.

Why is the MAI program so small?

    

The program is small because the necessary resources are limited and the
_numerous clausus_ is set to 50 freshmen per academic course.

How does this program relate to the AI PhD program?

    

The MAI **is  **considered a stepping-stone to the UPC AI PhD program.
Undergraduates who are interested in PhD work at UPC are invited applying to
that program. However, we are aware that there will be MS students who
discover after a semester or two that what they really want is a PhD. By
taking rigorous courses and writing a strong Master’s thesis it is possible to
put together a strong PhD application during the second year of study as an MS
student.

What can I do as a UB/UPC/URV undergraduate to make my MAI application strong?

    

Here are four things that strengthen your case. (1) Take a graduate-level
course and do well. (2) Develop a common interest with a CS faculty member of
any of the three participant universities (3) Emphasize your skills as a
speaker, researcher, and leader. (4) Include a letter of recommendation from
someone who can attest to your research skills.

Is there an “Early Admit’’ possibility for undergraduates who are entering
their last semester?

    

There is no early admission option. All degree requirements must be satisfied
by coursework completed _after_  you have completed your Bachelors degree.

Some Masters programs allow students to substitute a large project for the
written thesis. Why isn’t that an option at MAI?

    

Master Thesis is a compulsory official requirement.

Can I graduate in fewer than 3 semesters or use one semester for a co-
op/internship?

    

No. It is the policy of the Graduate School that Graduate students must be
enrolled in 3 semesters in order to earn the MAI degree. One aim of the
program is to establish an elite core of stellar graduate students who are
very interested in both applications and research. Should your _center of
gravity_ shift towards the research end, then you should simply opt for a
18-credit thesis which would give you a whole term to devote towards research.
Carefully executed, this can set the stage for PhD study in a top program
after the MAI.

You can use one semester to go abroad for an ERASMUS exchange or an
internship.

Can I graduate in more than 3 semesters?

    

There is a slow track for the MAI. Please contact the administration to know
the regulation.

Which are the possibilities for ERASMUS exchanges?

    

TO BE AGREED WITH FIB.

What is a "thesis committee"?

    

This is a three members committee that evaluates each Master Thesis. This
committee may change every semester.

How do I find a thesis advisor?

    

Take a course in your area of interest and get to know the professor. Attend
seminars and conferences. Knock on doors!

Who serves as my advisor before I form my Thesis Committee?

    

The Director of the Master of Artificial Intelligence serves as your faculty
advisor and assigns a tutor that will be helping you with course selection and
other academic issues.

What would a “typical” 3-semester schedule look like?

    

Requirements are given in terms of credit hours, not courses. But if you
assume a reasonable mix of 3-Credit, 4-credit, 4.5-credit, 5-credit and
6-credit courses, then you can ``model’’ what a semester looks like in terms
of courses.

15 courses plus 18-credit Thesis

    

  * Term 1- 6 MAI Courses (5*6) Compulsory
  * Term 2- 6 MAI Courses (3*4+3*6)
  * Term 3- 3 MAI Courses, Thesis Research (3+ 4.5*2+18)

There are certainly many other possibilities. In reasoning about your overall
schedule, keep in mind that the minor field course requirement depends on the
field.

Can I take classes taught at the other campi?

    

You are allowed to enrol in any course that is advised by your tutor and is
within the limits of the number of external credits. UB/UPC/URV master courses
are preferable.

How do MS students spend their summers?

    

There are no specific summer requirements. (You would be free to go work at a
company for the summer).

Why are the TOEFEL (or equivalent) requirements so high?

    

The teaching component of the MS program is extremely rigorous and requires
fluency in English.

Is financial support guaranteed while I am a student in the program?

    

No. There is a list of available scholarships.

## Dónde estamos

Edificio B6 del Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA España  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](mailto:informacio@fib.upc.edu)

  * [__](/es/noticies/rss.rss)
  * [__](https://www.facebook.com/fib.upc)
  * [__](https://twitter.com/fib_upc)
  * [__](https://www.flickr.com/photos/fib-upc/albums)
  * [__](https://www.youtube.com/user/mediafib)
  * [__](https://www.instagram.com/fib.upc/)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-
fib.jpg)](http://suport.fib.upc.edu)

## Contacta con la FIB

Su nombre *

Su dirección de correo electrónico *

Asunto *

Categoría * \- Por favor, elija -Aulas, equipos y servicios informáticosBuzon
de sugerenciasFelicitacionesInformación AcadémicaInformación de
movilidadInformación de los másteresInformación general de la FIBNoticias al
web de la FIBQuejas

Mensaje *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Avíso legal sobre esta web](/es/aviso-legal-sobre-esta-web) \- Configuración
de privacidad

