## Usted está aquí

[Inicio](/es) » [Estudios](/es/estudios) » [Másteres](/es/estudios/masteres) »
[Máster en Innovación e Investigación en
Informática](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-
informatica) » Seminarios

  * [Matrícula](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/matricula)
  * [Plan de estudios](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/plan-de-estudios)
  * [Profesorado](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/profesorado)
  * [Normativa académica](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/normativa-academica)
  * [Trabajo de fin de máster](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/trabajo-de-fin-de-master)
  * [Seminarios](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/seminarios-de-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica)
  * [Horarios](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/horarios)
  * [Exámenes](/es/estudios/masteres/master-en-innovacion-e-investigacion-en-informatica/examenes)

SIRI se organiza en actividades, evaluables por separado, a elegir entre un
conjunto diverso de actividades. Se pretende que la oferta de actividades sea
variada y haya un cierto grado de elección por parte del estudiante, que debe
cursar las actividades suficientes para sumar 6 ECTS.

A continuación, encontrará la lista de actividades que se están llevando a
cabo actualmente, y otros seminarios próximos y aquellos que ya se han llevado
a cabo durante este año. La inscripción a las actividades, anunciada en esta
lista, debe ser realizada directamente por los estudiantes con los
organizadores de la actividad. Para certificar la asistencia a estas
actividades y entregar la documentación requerida para ser evaluada deberás
utilizar el Racó ([mira cómo hacerlo](/sites/fib/files/documents/estudis/siri-
guideline.pdf)). El estudiante acumulará ECTS hasta lograr 6 o más ECTS. Sólo
entonces, el estudiante puede matricular la asignatura SIRI y aprobarla al
final del semestre actual.

## Curso 2024-2025

### Próximos seminarios

Título:

**Graphics Research Seminar** Cursando actualmente

Subtítulo:

Graphics Research Seminar

Especialidad:

MIRI-CGVR

Fechas:

Miércoles 23 Octubre 2024 - lunes 30 Junio 2025

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

Weekly research seminar that presents the latest results in Computer Graphics
and Visualization and projects developed by the ViRVIG Group.

Horarios:

10:30 - 11:30

\+ info

  

Título:

**Aula Lliure 1 ECTS (Semester 2)** Cursando actualmente

Subtítulo:

Aula Lliure (Semester 2)

Fechas:

Sábado 01 Febrero 2025 - Domingo 01 Junio 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

The 'Aula Lliure' project is designed so that early stage bachelor students
can take advantage of the academic experience of more veteran students and
thus improve their academic performance. The tuition language is catalan /
spanish. The 'Aula Lliure' project is designed so that early stage bachelor
students can take advantage of the academic experience of more veteran
students and thus improve their academic performance. The tuition language is
catalan / spanish. Note: You must claim 1 ECTS when you teach 8 lectures (of
2h) to 1 group of students, for a total of 16h of lectures.

Horarios:

See the website

Web:

<https://www.fib.upc.edu/ca/estudis/graus/pla-daccio-tutorial/aula-lliure>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Aula Lliure 2 ECTS (Semester 2)** Cursando actualmente

Subtítulo:

Aula Lliure (Semester 2)

Fechas:

Sábado 01 Febrero 2025 - Domingo 01 Junio 2025

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

The 'Aula Lliure' project is designed so that early stage bachelor students
can take advantage of the academic experience of more veteran students and
thus improve their academic performance. The tuition language is catalan /
spanish. The 'Aula Lliure' project is designed so that early stage bachelor
students can take advantage of the academic experience of more veteran
students and thus improve their academic performance. The tuition language is
catalan / spanish. Note: you can claim 2 ECTS when, at least, you teach 8
lectures (of 2h) to 2 groups of students, for a total of 32h of lectures.

Horarios:

See the website

Web:

<https://www.fib.upc.edu/ca/estudis/graus/pla-daccio-tutorial/aula-lliure>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Ethics for Engineers, Researchers and Innovators (EthicsERI) 2025** Cursando
actualmente

Subtítulo:

Ethics for Engineers, Researchers and Innovators (EthicsERI) (2025)

Fechas:

Viernes 28 Febrero 2025 - Viernes 28 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

All human activities have implications on our society. Professional exercise
in engineering, being a researcher or running innovation projects imply making
decisions that are not exclusively technical, they involve ethical
considerations. Theoretical sessions are complemented with numerous examples
and cases.

Horarios:

Friday, 10:00-13:00

Web:

<https://personals.ac.upc.edu/jordid/rciri.html#ethicseri>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Introduction to Quantitative Linguistics** Cursando actualmente

Subtítulo:

Introduction to Quantitative Linguistics

Fechas:

lunes 03 Marzo 2025 - Domingo 22 Junio 2025

Créditos:

4.0

Descripción:

This course is an introduction to the statistical properties of languages and
their origins, that are often related to the need to reduce the cognitive
effort of speakers or listeners. The course is primarily relevant to anybody
interested in how languages (and animal communication) are and why. In this
course, students will learn about a myriad of statistical laws of language
beyond the scope of traditional courses on information retrieval, how to
analyze them and how to explain them based on general principles of (human)
cognition. Students will learn about the mathematical and computational models
that have been developed to explain these regularities. During this journey,
students will enrich their current knowledge with concepts and tools from
linguistics, biology, cognitive science, information theory and
multidisciplinary physics. The course is also relevant for researchers
interested in evaluating or adapting algorithms, machine learning
methods,...based on the real statistical properties of language. As these
regularities are often the result of reducing the cognitive effort of language
users, the course is also relevant to researchers interested in developing
resources or systems that are easier to use or understand by humans or in
developing natural language processing tools that exploit the real constraints
of the human brain. The webpage of the last edition of the course (to be
updated) is found here: https://cqllab.upc.edu/courses/iql/ Depending on the
number of participants, the professor may replace (upon approval by students)
the labs and the research project by a single research project to be developed
throughout the course. Important: to enrol in this course, please, email the
contact person.

Horarios:

Tuesdays (08:00 to 10:00) and Thursdays (08:00 to 10:00)

Web:

<https://cqllab.upc.edu/courses/iql/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Hands-on project: Transfer learning in IoT monitoring networks.** Cursando
actualmente

Fechas:

Viernes 14 Marzo 2025 - Viernes 27 Junio 2025

Créditos:

3.0

Descripción:

Students will participate in a hands-on project with a real data set from an
IoT monitoring deployment in Barcelona, where air pollution sensors measured
O3 and NO2 during June 2022 to April 2024. The aim is to explore transfer
learning techniques to calibrate/recalibrate the sensors in different
locations.

\+ info

  

Título:

**EDBT/ICDT 2025 Joint Conference** Cursando actualmente

Subtítulo:

EDBT/ICDT 2025 Joint Conference

Fechas:

Martes 25 Marzo 2025 - Viernes 28 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

UPC students get a free registration that can be used to access the main
events (but it does not provide access to the coffee breaks, lunches and
social activities). Get the free registration by registering at:
https://forms.gle/2NUCMM2MF88Xrzo2A UPC students can get access to the
students poster fair, demo session, afternoon with sponsors and I&A1; and
I&A2; sessions. For all the other sessions, you may attend only if enough
available seats in the session.

Horarios:

Full day

Web:

<https://edbticdt2025.upc.edu/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**IMtech colloquium spring 2025** Cursando actualmente

Subtítulo:

IMtech colloquium spring 2025

Especialidad:

MIRI-AC

Fechas:

Miércoles 26 Marzo 2025 - Miércoles 02 Abril 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

More information on the Web link

Horarios:

12:15

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Pre-exascale System Administration: MareNostrum5 @
BSC**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Pre-exascale System Administration: MareNostrum5 @ BSC

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Martes 08 Abril 2025 - Miércoles 09 Abril 2025

Créditos:

0.5

Descripción:

The objective of this course is to explain the different components of
MareNostrum 5 and to understand the design decisions taken. We also analyze
how the system administration is taken in this pre-exascale system.
Prerequisites: Experience on Linux system administration is required.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-pre-
exascale-system-administration-marenostrum5-bsc-0>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Ethics and AI (EthicsAI) 2025**

Fechas:

Viernes 25 Abril 2025 - Viernes 30 Mayo 2025

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

AI has emerged as a powerful technology and it is expected it will impact all
human activities and professional developments. Some deployments pose serious
concern about its ethical implications. The course reviews some of the
recommendations and guidelines published related with AI developments. Also,
the main regulations and laws are examined. The course addresses the ethics of
two main areas: using AI tools for research, and doing research in AI.
Theoretical sessions are complemented with numerous examples and study cases.

Horarios:

10:00 - 13:00

Web:

<https://personals.ac.upc.edu/jordid/rciri.html#ethicsai>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Introduction to CUDA Programming**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Introduction to CUDA Programming

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

lunes 26 Mayo 2025 - Miércoles 28 Mayo 2025

Créditos:

1.5

Descripción:

The aim of this course is to provide students with knowledge and hands-on
experience in developing applications software for processors with massively
parallel computing resources. In general, we refer to a processor as massively
parallel if it has the ability to complete more than 64 arithmetic operations
per clock cycle. Many commercial offerings from NVIDIA, AMD, and Intel already
offer such levels of concurrency. Effectively programming these processors
will require in-depth knowledge about parallel programming principles, as well
as the parallelism models, communication models, and resource limitations of
these processors.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
introduction-cuda-programming-0>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Introduction to OpenACC**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Introduction to OpenACC

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Jueves 29 Mayo 2025 - Jueves 29 Mayo 2025

Créditos:

0.5

Descripción:

This is an expansion of the topic "OpenACC and other approaches to GPU
computing" covered on last years editions of the Introduction to CUDA
Programming. This course is delivered by the GPU Center of Excellence (GCOE)
awarded by NVIDIA to the Barcelona Supercomputing Center (BSC) in association
with Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya (UPC). It will provide very good
introduction to the PUMPS Summer School run jointly with NVIDIA - Further
information on the 2023 PUMPS Summer school will follow soon. As an NVIDIA GPU
Center of Excellence, BSC and UPC are deeply involved in research and outreach
activities around GPU Computing. OpenACC is a high-level, directive-based
programming model for GPU computing. It is a very convenient language to
leverage the GPU power with minimal code modifications, being the preferred
option for non computer scientists. This course will cover the necessary
topics to get started with GPU programming in OpenACC, as well as some
advanced topics.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
introduction-openacc-0>

\+ info

  

### Seminarios anteriores

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Advanced Heterogeneous Programming on FPGAs with
OmpSs@FPGA**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Advanced Heterogeneous Programming on FPGAs with
OmpSs@FPGA

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Viernes 21 Marzo 2025 - Viernes 21 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

0.5

Descripción:

This tutorial will introduce the audience to the BSC tools for heterogenous
programming on FPGA devices. It describes OmpSs@FPGA, as a productive
programming environment for compute systems with FPGAs.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
advanced-heterogeneous-programming-fpgas-ompssfpga>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Advanced Heterogeneous Programming on GPUs with MPI &
OmpSs**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Advanced Heterogeneous Programming on GPUs with MPI &
OmpSs

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Miércoles 19 Marzo 2025 - Jueves 20 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

The tutorial will motivate the audience on the need for portable, efficient
programming models that put less pressure on program developers while still
getting good performance for clusters and clusters with GPUs. More
specifically, the tutorial will: Introduce the hybrid MPI/OmpSs parallel
programming model for future exascale systems Demonstrate how to use MPI/OmpSs
to incrementally parallelize/optimize: MPI applications on clusters of SMPs,
and Leverage CUDA kernels with OmpSs on clusters of GPUs

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
advanced-heterogeneous-programming-gpus-mpi-ompss>

\+ info

  

Título:

**EuroHPC SUMMIT 2025**

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Martes 18 Marzo 2025 - Jueves 20 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

The EuroHPC Summit is an annual event gathering key European HPC and quantum
computing stakeholders from providers to scientific and industrial users, to
policy makers. The Summit is an important moment to showcase the latest
achievements and opportunities in the European supercomputing ecosystem, but
also to discuss and reflect on the current and future challenges in HPC and
quantum computing . The event also provides a great opportunity for attendees
to network and connect with the European supercomputing community.

Web:

<https://www.eurohpcsummit.eu/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Advanced Performance Analysis and Tools**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Advanced Performance Analysis and Tools

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Martes 11 Marzo 2025 - Miércoles 12 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

The objective of this course is to learn how Paraver and Dimemas tools can be
used to analyze the performance of parallel applications and to familiarize
with the tools usage as well as instrumenting applications with Extrae.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
advanced-performance-analysis-and-tools>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Programming of Petaflop Machine: MareNostrum5**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Programming of Petaflop Machine: MareNostrum5

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

lunes 03 Marzo 2025 - Martes 04 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

0.5

Descripción:

The objective of this course is to present to potential users the new
configuration of MareNostrum and a introduction on how to use the new system
(batch system, compilers, hardware, MPI, etc). Also It will provide an
introduction about RES infrastructures and how to get access to the
supercomputing resources available.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/trhttps://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-
training/bsc-training-course-programming-petafaining/bsc-training/bsc-
training-course-programming-petaflop-machine-marenostrum5>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Talent Arena MWC25**

Subtítulo:

Talent Arena MWC25

Fechas:

lunes 03 Marzo 2025 - Miércoles 05 Marzo 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

TALENT ARENA is a space with more than 1,500 m2 of exhibition space,
auditorium, workshops and sessions on Artificial Intelligence, Software
Engineering, Data Science and Microchips. In addition, attendees will be able
to access exclusive conferences with prominent industry speakers. More
information at: https://talentarena.tech/ Mandatory registration.

Horarios:

check the website

Web:

<https://talentarena.mobileworldcapital.com/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Introduction to Heterogeneous Memory Usage**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Introduction to Heterogeneous Memory Usage

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Jueves 27 Febrero 2025 - Jueves 27 Febrero 2025

Créditos:

0.5

Descripción:

The objective of this course is to learn how to use systems with more than one
memory subsystem. We will see the different options on using systems equipped
with Intel's Optane Persistent Memory technology, but also looking forward to
upcoming systems with HBM and CXL memories.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
introduction-heterogeneous-memory-usage-0>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Programming Distributed Computing Platforms with
COMPSs**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Programming Distributed Computing Platforms with COMPSs

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Martes 04 Febrero 2025 - Miércoles 05 Febrero 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

COMPSs is a programming model which is able to exploit the inherent
concurrency of sequential applications and execute them in a transparent
manner to the application developer in distributed computing platform. This is
achieved by annotating part of the codes as tasks, and building at execution a
task-dependence graph based on the actual data used consumed/produced by the
tasks. The COMPSs runtime is able to schedule the tasks in the computing nodes
and take into account facts like data locality and the different nature of the
computing nodes in case of heterogeneous platforms. Additionally, recently
COMPSs has been enhanced with the possibility of coordinating Web Services as
part of the applications. COMPSs supports Java, C/C++ and Python as
programming languages.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
programming-distributed-computing-platforms-compss-0>

\+ info

  

Título:

**RISC-V hackathon at HiPEAC 2025**

Fechas:

lunes 20 Enero 2025 - lunes 20 Enero 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

RISC-V, supported by sponsors Barcelona Supercomputing Center (BSC) and
Openchip, is organizing an in-person hackathon on 20 January 2025 at the
HiPEAC conference. This is a hands-on opportunity to dive into problem-solving
using RISC-V based solutions, get access to great tools, and learn first-hand
from experts.

Web:

<https://www.hipeac.net/news/7079/risc-v-hackathon-at-hipeac-2025/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Bitsxlamarato**

Subtítulo:

Bitsxlamarato

Fechas:

Viernes 13 Diciembre 2024 - Domingo 15 Diciembre 2024

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

This is a hackaton organized, among others, by FIB within the charity event
organized every Christmas by the Catalan Television (TV3) called "La Marató":
https://www.ccma.cat/tv3/marato/ For 2024, the topic for "La Marató" is
respiratory diseases. Bitsxlamarato is a hakacton aimed at solving real
challenges related to the topic proposed. Several challenges proposed by real
oragnisms (hospitals, institutions, companies, etc.) are presented to the
participants who must choose one of them and develop, during the three days,
their computer science solution to it. You need to register via the official
website. The website is updated (and registration is opened) every year, by
mid-November, the latest.

Horarios:

2 full days (see website)

Web:

<https://www.fib.upc.edu/ca/la-marato>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Novartis Datathon 7th Edition**

Subtítulo:

Novartis Datathon 7th Edition

Especialidad:

MIRI-DS

Fechas:

Jueves 28 Noviembre 2024 - Domingo 01 Diciembre 2024

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

Our long-term strategy is to focus Novartis as a leading medicines company
with five priorities: embrace operational excellence, deliver transformative
innovation, go big on data and digital, build trust with society, and build a
new culture by unleashing the power of our people. In order for us to develop
new treatments, we have to invest our resources wisely. We believe that data
science can help us here, and we believe that you can help us steer big data
to uncover the best solution! On Thursday 28th November 2024 be ready to
receive an exciting data science challenge on financial data. Our jury will
look at your results as well as how innovative is your approach. This year it
will be for three days (23 to 25 November) and online. For more information
visit: https://godatathon.com/challenge/ Apply at:
https://godatathon.com/apply-here/

Horarios:

Check the website (https://godatathon.com/apply-here/)

Web:

<https://www.godatathon.com>

\+ info

  

Título:

**HackEPS**

Subtítulo:

Organized by Lleidahack

Especialidad:

MIRI-DS

Fechas:

Sábado 23 Noviembre 2024 - Domingo 24 Noviembre 2024

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

Lleidahack welcomes you to HackEPS 2024, the first hackathon in Lleida! The
seventh edition of the HackEPS will take place in the building of the Superior
Technical School of the University in Lleida on November 23 and 24, 2024. The
participating students are expected to produce artefacts (solutions) at the
level of, at least, master studies.

Horarios:

Saturday and Sunday whole day

Web:

<https://lleidahack.dev/hackeps/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Datathon FME**

Subtítulo:

Datathon FME

Especialidad:

MIRI-DS

Fechas:

Sábado 16 Noviembre 2024 - Domingo 17 Noviembre 2024

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

A Datathon is a weekend-long competition where you are challenged to work on
real-world business cases from different areas of Machine Learning, AI, and
Data Science. You are given some datasets in order to answer questions or
implement solutions Our event will take place physically in UPC's School of
Mathematics and Statistics, located in Pau Gargallo 14, Barcelona! You can
find a map here. You will have access to classrooms to work with your own
laptop. We will provide you with WiFi. The event will start on Saturday
November 11 at 9h, when we will present the challenges. You'll be able to work
for 32 hours. The event will end on Sunday 17 at 17h, when the closing
ceremony will take place. We will provide you with meals, WiFi and some nice
swag. And of course, it's completely free!

Horarios:

Saturday and Sunday whole day

Web:

<https://datathon.cat/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: RISC-V principles for understanding how to freely
develop new solutions**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: RISC-V principles for understanding how to freely develop
new solutions

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

lunes 11 Noviembre 2024 - Miércoles 13 Noviembre 2024

Créditos:

1.5

Descripción:

RISC-V is an open instruction set standard which is experiencing extraordinary
growth all over the world in numerous areas of focus ranging from HPC & ML to
the data center to embedded computing. The standardization activities are
community driven by expert members (from industry, academia and individuals).
BSC is one of the community members that is contributing to the ecosystem.
This course is an opportunity to get familiar with technical aspects of the
standard through a combination of lectures and hands-on sessions. This course
identifies topics that are both fundamental to computer architecture and
relevant to the design of RISC-V based solutions of the future. The emphasis
is always on insights that will be useful to the (under)graduate student,
whether he/she goes on for a PhD or joins a software or hardware development
team. We will deal with principles, trade-offs, and implementation details
related to the RISC-V standard. Along the course, the students will get
familiar with some layers of the RISC-V software and hardware stacks using a
learning-by-doing methodology. This will provide a mechanism to the students
to understand the RISC-V ecosystem, BSC know-how and activities related to
RISC-V, and explore the potential of the ISA to freely develop new
technologies.. Topics will cover aspects like: how to boot an operating
system, how to deploy a container and execute an application, how to tune an
algorithm for improving its performance through the addition of custom
instructions, and finally, how to improve the performance of an HPC
application by taking advantage of the RISC-V Vector extension.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-risc-
v-principles-understanding-how-freely-develop-new-solutions>

\+ info

  

Título:

**International HPC User Forum Barcelona, 2024**

Subtítulo:

International HPC User Forum Barcelona, 2024

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

lunes 21 Octubre 2024 - Martes 22 Octubre 2024

Créditos:

0.5

Descripción:

On October 21st and 22nd, UPC, BSC and Hyperion Research are organizing the
International HPC User Forum: UPC Auditorium, Monday-Tuesday October
21st-22nd. There is no fee to attend this HPC User Forum event. Registration
is required for seating, meal planning and name badge. The meeting is hold in
the UPC Auditorium, in the Vertex Building, Monday Oct. 21th, 13:00 to 19:00,
and Oct. 22nd, 8.30 to 15:30.

Web:

<https://www.hpcuserforum.com/international-hpc-user-forum-spain/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Implementation of an immerse virtual environment populated with intelligent
conversational agents using AI tools.**

Subtítulo:

Implementation of an immerse virtual environment populated with intelligent
conversational agents using AI tools.

Especialidad:

MIRI-CGVR

Fechas:

Miércoles 16 Octubre 2024 - Sábado 15 Febrero 2025

Créditos:

3.0

Descripción:

Social Presence is defined as the level at which a participant feels that
he/she is with another person. In this project, virtual agents will be
equipped with intelligence so that they will be able to hold a dynamic and
rich conversation with the participants. The main goal is to check if the
level of Social Presence increases compared to agents that are able to hold a
poor conversation. The application will be developed in Unity and Oculus Quest
3.

\+ info

  

Título:

**BSC Training Course: Parallel Programming Workshop**

Subtítulo:

BSC Training Course: Parallel Programming Workshop

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

lunes 14 Octubre 2024 - Viernes 18 Octubre 2024

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

The objectives of this course are to understand the fundamental concepts
supporting message-passing and shared memory programming models. The course
covers the two widely used programming models: MPI for the distributed-memory
environments, and OpenMP for the shared-memory architectures. The course also
presents the main tools developed at BSC to get information and analyze the
execution of parallel applications, Paraver and Extrae. It also presents the
Parallware Assistant tool, which is able to automatically parallelize a large
number of program structures, and provide hints to the programmer with respect
to how to change the code to improve parallelization. It deals with debugging
alternatives, including the use of GDB and Totalview. The use of OpenMP in
conjunction with MPI to better exploit the shared-memory capabilities of
current compute nodes in clustered architectures is also considered. Paraver
will be used along the course as the tool to understand the behavior and
performance of parallelized codes. The course is taught using formal lectures
and practical/programming sessions to reinforce the key concepts and set up
the compilation/execution environment.

Web:

<https://www.bsc.es/education/training/bsc-training/bsc-training-course-
parallel-programming-workshop-0>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Responsible Conduct in Research and Innovation (RCiRI) 2024**

Subtítulo:

Responsible Conduct in Research and Innovation (RCiRI)

Fechas:

Viernes 27 Septiembre 2024 - Viernes 25 Octubre 2024

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

All human activities have implications on our society. Research activity not
only does but also the overall research system is based on trust. Then,
responsible research conduct is of outmost importance. The goal of the course
is to provide an overview of the rules and professional practices that are
considered as responsible conduct of research and engineering. Ph. D.
students, post-doctoral researchers and everybody involved in research and
innovation must know the principles and practices that define a responsible
conduct and the ones that are not appropriate and are identified as
misconduct. Topics include: Introduction on Responsible Research and
Innovation Research misconduct Authorship Plagiarism Peer reviews Conflicts of
interest Mentor/mentee relationship Collaborative research Presenting the
results Intellectual Property Information Privacy

Horarios:

Friday, 10:00-13:00

Web:

<http://jordid.site.ac.upc.edu/rciri.html>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Aula Lliure 1 ECTS (Semester 1)**

Subtítulo:

Aula Lliure 2 ECTS (Semester 1)

Fechas:

Sábado 07 Septiembre 2024 - Martes 07 Enero 2025

Créditos:

1.0

Descripción:

The 'Aula Lliure' project is designed so that early stage bachelor students
can take advantage of the academic experience of more veteran students and
thus improve their academic performance. The tuition language is catalan /
spanish. Note: you must claim 1 ECTS when you teach 8 lectures (of 2h) to 1
group of students, for a total of 16h of lectures.

Horarios:

See the website

Web:

<https://www.fib.upc.edu/ca/estudis/graus/pla-daccio-tutorial/aula-lliure>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Aula Lliure 2 ECTS (Semester 1)**

Subtítulo:

Aula Lliure (Semester 1)

Fechas:

Sábado 07 Septiembre 2024 - Martes 07 Enero 2025

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

The 'Aula Lliure' project is designed so that early stage bachelor students
can take advantage of the academic experience of more veteran students and
thus improve their academic performance. The tuition language is catalan /
spanish. Note: you can claim 2 ECTS when, at least, you teach 8 lectures (of
2h) to 2 groups of students, for a total of 32h of lectures.

Horarios:

See the website

Web:

<https://www.fib.upc.edu/ca/estudis/graus/pla-daccio-tutorial/aula-lliure>

\+ info

  

Título:

**ACM Europe Summer School on HPC Computer Architectures for AI and Dedicated
Applications**

Subtítulo:

ACM Europe Summer School on HPC Computer Architectures for AI and Dedicated
Applications

Fechas:

lunes 02 Septiembre 2024 - Viernes 06 Septiembre 2024

Créditos:

2.5

Descripción:

Welcome to the 2024 ACM Summer School! This year's program focuses on High-
Performance Computing (HPC) and Artificial Intelligence (AI), and it will also
explore emerging research areas such as Quantum Computing. The 2024 ACM Summer
School on "HPC Computer Architectures for AI and Dedicated Applications" will
take place from 2 to 6 September in Barcelona, Spain. The Barcelona
Supercomputing Center (BSC-CNS) and the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya
(UPC) will host the school.

Horarios:

9:00 - 20:00

Web:

<https://europe.acm.org/seasonal-schools/hpc/2024/program-schedule>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Ethics for Engineers, Researchers and Innovators (EthicsERI) 2024**

Subtítulo:

Ethics for Engineers, Researchers and Innovators (EthicsERI) 2024

Fechas:

Domingo 01 Septiembre 2024 - Viernes 27 Diciembre 2024

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

All human activities have implications on our society. Professional exercise
in engineering, being a researcher or running innovation projects imply making
decisions that are not exclusively technical, they involve ethical
considerations. Theoretical sessions are complemented with numerous examples
and cases.

Horarios:

Friday, 10:00-13:00

Web:

<https://personals.ac.upc.edu/jordid/rciri.html#ethicseri>

\+ info

  

Título:

**EUMaster4HPC Summer School 2024**

Subtítulo:

EUMaster4HPC Summer School

Fechas:

Domingo 18 Agosto 2024 - Sábado 24 Agosto 2024

Créditos:

3.0

Descripción:

High performance solutions play a key role in addressing environmental issues
such as climate change, natural resource management, pollution control,
greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, and many others. This
EUMaster4HPC Summer School has an excellent programme to train students
capable of solving the world's biggest challenges. EUMAster4HPC Summer School
2023 offers students a unique opportunity to experience life as a EUMaster4HPC
student.

Horarios:

8:00-20:00

Web:

<https://eumaster4hpc.uni.lu/summer-school-2024/>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Issues in Computer Architecture and Microarchitecture for Future Computing
Machines**

Subtítulo:

Issues in Computer Architecture and Microarchitecture for Future Computing
Machines

Fechas:

lunes 17 Junio 2024 - lunes 08 Julio 2024

Créditos:

2.0

Descripción:

This course identifies topics that are both fundamental to computer
architecture and relevant to the design of microprocessors of the future. The
emphasis is always on insights that will be useful to the graduate student,
whether he/she goes on for a PhD or joins a microprocessor design team. We
will deal with principles, tradeoffs, and implementation details. We will
cover mechanism (e.g., trace caches, helper threads, branch prediction,
bandwidth). We will discuss the implications of multi-core on future
microprocessor design. We will examine current state of the art
microprocessors. In addition to the class lectures/discussions, students will
carry out an out-of-class project and make a presentation on what they learn
to the class. There will be a written final examination that will be taken
outside of class and turned in prior to the final class meeting.

Horarios:

15:00-19:00

\+ info

  

Título:

**PUMPS+AI 2024**

Subtítulo:

PUMPS+AI 2024

Especialidad:

MIRI-HPC

Fechas:

Viernes 14 Junio 2024 - Martes 18 Junio 2024

Créditos:

3.0

Descripción:

The 13th edition of the Programming and Tuning Massively Parallel Systems +
Artificial Intelligence summer school (PUMPS+AI) is aimed at enriching the
skills of researchers, graduate students and instructors with cutting-edge
technique and hands-on experience in developing applications for many-core
processors with massively parallel computing resources like GPU accelerators,
with a special focus on artificial intelligence.

Web:

<https://pumps.bsc.es/2024>

\+ info

  

Título:

**Redirect walk in place for Immersive Virtual Reality**

Subtítulo:

Redirect walk in place for Immersive Virtual Reality

Especialidad:

MIRI-CGVR

Fechas:

lunes 02 Octubre 2023 - lunes 15 Julio 2024

Créditos:

3.0

Descripción:

Implementation of techniques to redirect participants when navigating in VR
with the walk-in-place metaphor. When walking in place, users tend to slightly
drift from their original position with the danger of colliding with the
physical environment. In the research work, we are interested in testing
different techniques to mitigate this problem. Upon completion, it could lead
to a follow-up seminar with an additional 3 ECTS by running a user study and
participating in a research publication.

\+ info

  

## Dónde estamos

Edificio B6 del Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA España  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](mailto:informacio@fib.upc.edu)

  * [__](/es/noticies/rss.rss)
  * [__](https://www.facebook.com/fib.upc)
  * [__](https://twitter.com/fib_upc)
  * [__](https://www.flickr.com/photos/fib-upc/albums)
  * [__](https://www.youtube.com/user/mediafib)
  * [__](https://www.instagram.com/fib.upc/)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-
fib.jpg)](http://suport.fib.upc.edu)

## Contacta con la FIB

Su nombre *

Su dirección de correo electrónico *

Asunto *

Categoría * \- Por favor, elija -Aulas, equipos y servicios informáticosBuzon
de sugerenciasFelicitacionesInformación AcadémicaInformación de
movilidadInformación de los másteresInformación general de la FIBNoticias al
web de la FIBQuejas

Mensaje *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Avíso legal sobre esta web](/es/aviso-legal-sobre-esta-web) \- Configuración
de privacidad

