## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » Bachelor Degree in
Bioinformatics

  * [Do you want to study a bachelor's degree?](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\do-you-want-study-bachelors-degree.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Informatics Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Data Science and Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Artificial Intelligence](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-artificial-intelligence.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Bioinformatics](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics.md)
    * [Enrolment](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\enrolment.md)
    * [Curriculum](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\curriculum.md)
    * [Faculty](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\faculty.md)
    * [Timetables](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\timetables.md)
    * [Academic Regulations](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\academic-regulations.md)
    * [Exams](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\exams.md)
  * [Integrated Bachelor Master Degree](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\integrated-bachelor-master-degree.md)

**Open days 2024**

Do you have questions about this degree? come, and we'll tell you everything
you need to know. **[Sign up for the sessions](ca\\secundaria\\portes-
obertes.md)**!

![Imatge grau en
bioinformàtica](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/bioinformaticamidaweb.png)

**Bioinformatics** has become a strategic field because of the enormous
amounts of biological data that health professionals have to deal with; the
ability to manage, visualise and analyse these big data offers opportunities
for improving their understanding of the occurrence and progression of
disease, for identifying new treatment strategies and for improving health and
health care. Other professional fields with big challenges related with
bioinformatics and our understanding of biology (combined with the technical
abilities) are agriculture and the food industry. Bioinformaticists will speed
up the rate at which new discoveries can be turned into better health, more
effective healthcare and greater economic and social progress in society.

It is the **first interuniversity bachelor’s degree in Bioinformatics taught
in Spain** , and it is offered jointly by the four most prestigious Catalan
public universities: UPC, UB, UAB and UPF.

The degree in Bioinformatics offers comprehensive and solid training at the
crossroads of computing, biomedical sciences and physics and chemistry. The
student is provided with mathematical skills, biological knowledge, statistics
and machine learning abilities with an interdisciplinary focus, with
particular emphasis on biomedical applications. Elective subjects provide
complementary knowledge in areas such as medical and pharmaceutical research,
molecular biology, data science and genomics.

The aim of this degree is to provide students with a global view of the life
sciences, with challenges that rarely fall within a single discipline and the
necessary tools to work with them. This degree is the result of the efforts of
the four participating universities to promote transversal and
interdisciplinary studies between biomedicine, technology and computing.

**Responsible** : Marta Casanellas Rius -
[cap.estudis.bbi.fib@upc.edu](cap.estudis.bbi.fib@upc.edu.md) (vice-dean
director of BBI studies)

Cut-off mark

10,738 (2024-2025 academic year)

Places

50

Duration

The bachelor’s degree in Bioinformatics lasts for 4 years.

Workload

240 ECTS credits.

Language

100% of subjects are taught in English.

Fees

[Official degree fees](en\\bachelors\\fees-grants-and-payment-options.md)

[ ![imatge díptic informatiu del Grau en
Bioinformàtica](https://www.fib.upc.edu/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/diptic-
informatiu-gbio-en.png)Download the leaflet
](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\diptic-informatiu-gbio-en.pdf.md)

__

## Target

Students should have a good grounding in science, logical reasoning skills, an
ability to handle abstract models and good observation, attention and
concentration skills. They should also be creative, imaginative and innovative
and have an interest in the life sciences and medicine.

## Offered by (UPC coordinating university)

[![Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
BarchelonaTech](/sites/fib/files/logoupc_trans.gif)](en.md)

[![Universitat de
Barcelona](/sites/fib/files/logoub.png)](web\\ub\\en\\estudis\\oferta_formativa\\graus\\fitxa\\B\\G1100\\index.html.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/logo-uab.png)](web\\estudiar\\ehea-
degrees\\general-information-1216708259085.html.md)

[![Universitat Pompeu Fabra -
Barcelona](/sites/fib/files/logoupf_trans.gif)](en.md)

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics.md)

