## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » Bachelor Degree in Data Science
and Engineering

  * [Do you want to study a bachelor's degree?](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\do-you-want-study-bachelors-degree.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Informatics Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-engineering.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Data Science and Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering.md)
    * [Enrolment](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\enrolment.md)
    * [Curriculum](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\curriculum.md)
    * [Faculty](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\faculty.md)
    * [Timetables](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\timetables.md)
    * [Exams](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\exams.md)
    * [Academic Regulations and organization](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering\\academic-regulations-and-organization.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Artificial Intelligence](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-artificial-intelligence.md)
  * [Bachelor Degree in Bioinformatics](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics.md)
  * [Integrated Bachelor Master Degree](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\integrated-bachelor-master-degree.md)

**Open days 2024**

Do you have questions about this degree? come, and we'll tell you everything
you need to know. **[Sign up for the sessions](ca\\secundaria\\portes-
obertes.md)**!

The**Bachelor Degree in Data Science and Engineering** (GCED) responds to the
need of training graduates with a multidisciplinary vision of science and
engineering and able to cope with evolving technological challenges and based,
in large part, on computer systems that generate and analyze massive amounts
of data.

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/datascience_linked.png)](index.md)

This degree aims to form expert professionals in analysis and engineering of
structured and unstructured data (text, audio, video, medical tests, financial
indicators, etc.), with a mathematical base and engineering skills that allow
them to model and solve complex problems. It is an emerging field of work with
applications as diverse as biomedical informatics, genomics, financial
analytics, the study of physical phenomena, e-commerce, smart cities, sports
or social networks, among others.

The Degree lasts 240 credits ECTS (4 academic years).

  * Basic academic training: 60 ECTS
  * Compulsory academic training: 126 ECTS
  * Optional academic training and internships: 36 ECTS
  * Final project:18 ECTS

**Responsible** : Guillem Perarnau Llobet -

__

## About

The **Degree in Data Science and Engineering,** offered jointly by FIB, ETSETB
and FME, provides training in three basic pillars: mathematics and statistics,
to be able to model systems and treat information in a rigorous way;
Computing, to use computing devices in a generalized and efficient way in the
treatment of information and autonomous learning; and signal processing, to
deal with the complex information represented in images, audio and video or
generated by any source of digitally encoded data. Entrepreneurship and
autonomous learning will be fostered during studies based on specific subjects
and participation in multidisciplinary projects.

Cut-off mark

12,428 (2024-2025 academic year)

Duration

The Degree lasts 4 academic years.

Workload

Full time: 20h lectures and 20h-25h personal workload per week.

Part time: 10h lectures and 10h-12.5h personal workload per week.

Language

Subjects are delivered in Catalan or Spanish. Students can check [related
information](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-informatics-
engineering\\degree-subject-curriculum\\syllabus.md) on the website.

Fees

[Official fees UPC](aprender\\estudios\\grados\\precios-beca-modalidades-
pago.md)

Further information

[ Bachelor Degree in Data Science and Engineering ](index.md)

[ ![imatge diptic informatiu Grau en Ciència i Enginyeria de
Dades](https://www.fib.upc.edu/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/diptic-
informatiu-gced-ca.jpg)Download the leaflet
](sites\\fib\\files\\documents\\estudis\\diptic-informatiu-gced-ca-br.pdf.md)

__

## Target

Students should have a good grounding in science, logical reasoning skills,
ability to handle mathematical models and good observation, attention and
concentration skills.

__

## Quality labels

Further information on [the FIB quality system](en\\fib\\quality-system.md).

[![](https://www.fib.upc.edu/sites/fib/files/styles/segells_qualitat/public/segell-
qualitat-gced-excellent-en.png?itok=W5Szp8tz)](euc\\en\\Titulacions\\Fitxa.md)

## Participating centres (FIB coordinator teaching centre)

[![Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/logo-
fib-150x250.jpg)](ca.md)

[![Telecos](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/logo-telecos-150x250.jpg)](ca.md)

[![FME](/sites/fib/files/images/logo-fme-150x250.jpg)](ca.md)

## You may also be interested in

[ 2024-2025 Bachelor's degrees Calendar ](sites\\fib\\files\\calendari-
academic-2024-2025-graus.pdf.md)

[](sites\\fib\\files\\calendari-academic-2024-2025-graus.pdf.md)

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-
engineering.md)

