## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » Do you want to study a
bachelor's degree?

## Bachelor's Degree in Informatics Engineering

Do you have a passion for New Technologies? Do you want to learn how to create
and innovate by using them?

The Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona (FIB) is one of the pioneering Spanish
center which delivers university training in Informatics. You can get
information about everything that you should know concerning the FIB degree in
Informatics Engineering on the website **[I love bits](en\\ilovebits.md)**.  
  

[__Degree in Informatics Engineering](es\\ilovebits.md)

[ ![Grau Bioinformàtica](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/foto-
anna.png)](ilovebits-en.md)

  

## Bachelor Degree in Data Science and Engineering

[ ![Grau Bioinformàtica](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/grau-
datascience.png)](index.md)

Do you want to develop intelligent systems capable of understanding data and
learning from them to improve our quality of life?

The Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona, the Escola Tècnica Superior
d'Enginyeria de Telecomunicació de Barcelona and the Facultat de Matemàtiques
i Estadística offer a 4-year Degree in Data Science and Engineering that aims
to train professionals in analysis and structured and unstructured data
engineering.

[__Bachelor Degree in Data Science and Engineering](en\\studies\\bachelors-
degrees\\bachelor-degree-data-science-and-engineering.md)

  

## Bachelor's Degree in Artificial Inteligence

Do you want to study a world revolutionary area?

The Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona is hte first spannish center that
offers the possibility of studying the IA formation as a bacherlor's degree,
master and doctorate, sharing experience, teachers and internships with other
informatic areas.

[__Bachelor's Degree in Artificial Intelligence](ca\\estudis\\graus\\grau-en-
intelligencia-artificial.md)

[ ![Grau Enginyeria Informàtica](/sites/fib/files/images/imatge-
gia.jpg)](es\\estudios\\grados\\grado-en-inteligencia-artificial.md)

## Bachelor's Degree in Bioinformatics

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/bioinformaticamidaweb.png)](en\\studies\\bachelors-
degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics.md)

Would you like to use the informatics approach on the study of biological
systems?

Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya-BarcelonaTech (UPC), Pompeu Fabra
University (UPF), and the University of Barcelona (UB) offer a four-year
Bachelor's **Degree in Bioinformatics** taught entirely in English. The degree
is managed by FIB-UPC, and lectures are delivered at Campus Nord (FIB-ETSETB),
Mar Campus (UPF), Biology School (UB) and Facultat de Biociències (UAB).

[__Bachelor's Degree in Bioinformatics](en\\studies\\bachelors-
degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics.md)

##

## Integrated Bachelor Master Degree

Do you want to obtain both degrees by getting the maximum level in the field?

The Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona incorporates the new Integrated
Bachelor Master Degree.

[__Integrated Bachelor Master Degree](en\\studies\\bachelors-
degrees\\integrated-bachelor-master-degree.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/estudis/grau-master-enginyeria-informatica-
programa-successiu.png)](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\integrated-bachelor-
master-degree.md)

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\do-you-want-study-bachelors-
degree.md)

