## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Bachelor's
degrees](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees.md) » [Bachelor Degree in
Bioinformatics](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-
bioinformatics.md) » [Curriculum](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-
degree-bioinformatics\\curriculum.md) » Learning Outcomes

  * [Learning Outcomes](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\curriculum\\learning-outcomes.md)
  * [Syllabus](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-bioinformatics\\curriculum\\syllabus.md)

## Learning Outcomes

### KNOWLEDGE

  * **K1**  
Recognize the basic principles of biology, from cellular to organism scale,
and how these are related to current knowledge in the fields of
bioinformatics, data analysis, and machine learning; thus achieving an
interdisciplinary vision with special emphasis on biomedical applications.

  * **K2**  
Identify mathematical models and statistical and computational methods that
allow for solving problems in the fields of molecular biology, genomics,
medical research, and population genetics.

  * **K3**  
Identify the mathematical foundations, computational theories, algorithmic
schemes and information organization principles applicable to the modeling of
biological systems and to the efficient solution of bioinformatics problems
through the design of computational tools.

  * **K4**  
Integrate the concepts offered by the most widely used programming languages
in the field of Life Sciences to model and optimize data structures and build
efficient algorithms, relating them to each other and to their application
cases.

  * **K5**  
Identify the nature of the biological variables that need to be analyzed, as
well as the mathematical models, algorithms, and statistical tests appropriate
to develop and evaluate statistical analyses and computational tools.

  * **K6**  
Recognize the ethical problems that arise from advances in the knowledge and
in the application of biological concepts and their computational processing.

  * **K7**  
Analyze the sources of scientific information, valid and reliable, to justify
the state of the art of a bioinformatics problem and to be able to address its
resolution.

### SKILLS

  * **S1**  
Integrate omics and clinical data to gain a greater understanding and a better
analysis of biological phenomena.

  * **S2**  
Computationally analyze DNA, RNA and protein sequences, including comparative
genome analyses, using computation, mathematics and statistics as basic tools
of bioinformatics.

  * **S3**  
Solve problems in the fields of molecular biology, genomics, medical research
and population genetics by applying statistical and computational methods and
mathematical models.

  * **S4**  
Develop specific tools that enable solving problems on the interpretation of
biological and biomedical data, including complex visualizations.

  * **S5**  
Disseminate information, ideas, problems and solutions from bioinformatics and
computational biology to a general audience.

  * **S6**  
Identify and interpret relevant data, within the area of study, to make
judgments that include social, scientific or ethical reflections.

  * **S7**  
Implement programming methods and data analysis based on the development of
working hypotheses within the area of study.

  * **S8**  
Make decisions, and defend them with arguments, in the resolution of problems
in the areas of biology, as well as, within the appropriate fields, health
sciences, computer sciences and experimental sciences.

  * **S9**  
Exploit biological and biomedical information to transform it into knowledge;
in particular, extract and analyze information from databases to solve new
biological and biomedical problems.

  * **S10**  
Use acquired knowledge and the skills of bioinformatics problem solving in new
or unfamiliar environments within broader (or multidisciplinary) contexts
related to bioinformatics and computational biology.

### COMPETENCES

  * **C1**  
Apply knowledge in an integrated way in work or vocation in a professional
manner and adopt behaviors in accordance with an ethical and responsible
professional practice, taking into account the human and fundamental rights of
people and respecting the principles of universal accessibility.

  * **C2**  
Identify the complexity of the economic and social phenomena typical of the
welfare society and relate welfare to globalization, sustainability and
climate change in order to use technique, technology, economy and
sustainability in a balanced and compatible way.

  * **C3**  
Communicate orally and in writing with others in the English language about
learning, thinking and decision making outcomes.

  * **C4**  
Work as a member of an interdisciplinary team, either as an additional member
or performing managerial tasks, in order to contribute to the development of
projects (including business or research) with pragmatism and a sense of
responsibility and ethical principles, assuming commitments taking into
account the available resources.

  * **C5**  
Unify the acquisition, structuring, analysis and visualization of data and
information in the field of specialty, critically assessing the results of
such management.

  * **C6**  
Detect deficiencies in the own knowledge and overcome them through critical
reflection and the choice of the best action to expand this knowledge.

  * **C7**  
Detect, from within the scope of the degree, inequalities based on sex and
gender in society; integrate the different needs and preferences based on sex
and gender in the design of solutions and problem solving.

  * **C8**  
Work in the formulation, design and management of projects in the field of
bioinformatics.

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\bachelors-degrees\\bachelor-degree-
bioinformatics\\curriculum\\learning-outcomes.md)

