## You are here

[Home](en.md) » [Studies](en\\studies.md) » [Masters](en\\studies\\masters.md)
» [Master in Informatics Engineering](en\\studies\\masters\\master-
informatics-engineering.md) » [Curriculum](en\\studies\\masters\\master-
informatics-engineering\\curriculum.md) » Competences

  * [Syllabus](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\syllabus.md)
  * [Competences](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Competences for degree subjects](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences-degree-subjects.md)

  * [Transversal Competences](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Generic Technical Competences](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)
  * [Technical Competences of each Specialization](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)

## Transversal Competences

### ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION

  * **CTR1**  
Capacity for knowing and understanding a business organization and the science
that rules its activity, capability to understand the labour rules and the
relationships between planning, industrial and commercial strategies, quality
and profit. Capacity for developping creativity, entrepreneurship and
innovation trend.

### SUSTAINABILITY AND SOCIAL COMMITMENT

  * **CTR2**  
Capability to know and understand the complexity of the typical economic and
social phenomena of the welfare society. Capacity for being able to analyze
and assess the social and environmental impact.

### TEAMWORK

  * **CTR3**  
Capacity of being able to work as a team member, either as a regular member or
performing directive activities, in order to help the development of projects
in a pragmatic manner and with sense of responsibility; capability to take
into account the available resources.

### INFORMATION LITERACY

  * **CTR4**  
Capability to manage the acquisition, structuring, analysis and visualization
of data and information in the area of informatics engineering, and critically
assess the results of this effort.

### APPROPIATE ATTITUDE TOWARDS WORK

  * **CTR5**  
Capability to be motivated by professional achievement and to face new
challenges, to have a broad vision of the possibilities of a career in the
field of informatics engineering. Capability to be motivated by quality and
continuous improvement, and to act strictly on professional development.
Capability to adapt to technological or organizational changes. Capacity for
working in absence of information and/or with time and/or resources
constraints.

### REASONING

  * **CTR6**  
Capacity for critical, logical and mathematical reasoning. Capability to solve
problems in their area of study. Capacity for abstraction: the capability to
create and use models that reflect real situations. Capability to design and
implement simple experiments, and analyze and interpret their results.
Capacity for analysis, synthesis and evaluation.

### BASIC

  * **CB6**  
Ability to apply the acquired knowledge and capacity for solving problems in
new or unknown environments within broader (or multidisciplinary) contexts
related to their area of study.

  * **CB7**  
Ability to integrate knowledges and handle the complexity of making judgments
based on information which, being incomplete or limited, includes
considerations on social and ethical responsibilities linked to the
application of their knowledge and judgments.

  * **CB8**  
Capability to communicate their conclusions, and the knowledge and rationale
underpinning these, to both skilled and unskilled public in a clear and
unambiguous way.

  * **CB9**  
Possession of the learning skills that enable the students to continue
studying in a way that will be mainly self-directed or autonomous.

## Generic Technical Competences

### GENERIC

  * **CG1**  
Capability to plan, calculate and design products, processes and facilities in
all areas of Computer Science.

  * **CG2**  
Capacity for management of products and installations of computer systems,
complying with current legislation and ensuring the quality of service.

  * **CG3**  
Capability to lead, plan and supervise multidisciplinary teams.

  * **CG4**  
Capacity for mathematical modeling, calculation and simulation in technology
and engineering companies centers, particularly in research, development and
innovation tasks in all areas related to Informatics Engineering.

  * **CG5**  
Capacity for the development, strategic planning, leadership, coordination and
technical and financial management of projects in all areas of Informatics
Engineering, keeping up with quality and environmental criteria.

  * **CG6**  
Capacity for general management, technical management and research projects
management, development and innovation in companies and technology centers in
the area of Computer Science.

  * **CG7**  
Capacity for implementation, direction and management of computer
manufacturing processes, with guarantee of safety for people and assets, the
final quality of the products and their homologation.

  * **CG8**  
Capability to apply the acquired knowledge and to solve problems in new or
unfamiliar environments inside broad and multidisciplinary contexts, being
able to integrate this knowledge.

  * **CG9**  
Capacity to understand and apply ethical responsibility, law and professional
deontology of the activity of the Informatics Engineering profession.

  * **CG10**  
Capacity to apply economics, human resources and projects management
principles, as well as legislation, regulation and standardization of
Informatics.

## Technical Competences of each Specialization

### DIRECCIÓ I GESTIÓ

  * **CDG1**  
Capability to integrate technologies, applications, services and systems of
Informatics Engineering, in general and in broader and multicisciplinary
contexts.

  * **CDG2**  
Capacity for strategic planning, development, direction, coordination, and
technical and economic management in the areas of Informatics Engineering
related to: systems, applications, services, networks, infrastructure or
computer facilities and software development centers or factories, respecting
the implementation of quality and environmental criteria in multidisciplinary
working environments .

  * **CDG3**  
Capability to manage research, development and innovation projects in
companies and technology centers, guaranteeing the safety of people and
assets, the final quality of products and their homologation.

### ESPECIFICS

  * **CTE1**  
Capability to model, design, define the architecture, implement, manage,
operate, administrate and maintain applications, networks, systems, services
and computer contents.

  * **CTE2**  
Capability to understand and know how to apply the operation and organization
of Internet, technologies and protocols for next generation networks,
component models, middleware and services.

  * **CTE3**  
Capability to secure, manage, audit and certify the quality of developments,
processes, systems, services, applications and software products.

  * **CTE4**  
Capability to design, develop, manage and evaluate mechanisms of certification
and safety guarantee in the management and access to information in a local or
distributed processing.

  * **CTE5**  
Capability to analyze the information needs that arise in an environment and
carry out all the stages in the process of building an information system.

  * **CTE6**  
Capability to design and evaluate operating systems and servers, and
applications and systems based on distributed computing.

  * **CTE7**  
Capability to understand and to apply advanced knowledge of high performance
computing and numerical or computational methods to engineering problems.

  * **CTE8**  
Capability to design and develop systems, applications and services in
embedded and ubiquitous systems .

  * **CTE9**  
Capability to apply mathematical, statistical and artificial intelligence
methods to model, design and develop applications, services, intelligent
systems and knowledge-based systems.

  * **CTE10**  
Capability to use and develop methodologies, methods, techniques, special-
purpose programs, rules and standards for computer graphics.

  * **CTE11**  
Capability to conceptualize, design, develop and evaluate human-computer
interaction of products, systems, applications and informatic services.

  * **CTE12**  
Capability to create and exploit virtual environments, and to the create,
manageme and distribute of multimedia content.

## Where we are

B6 Building Campus Nord  
C/Jordi Girona Salgado,1-3  
08034 BARCELONA Spain  
Tel: (+34) 93 401 70 00

[informacio@fib.upc.edu](informacio@fib.upc.edu.md)

  * [__](en\\noticies\\rss.rss.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)
  * [__](fib_upc.md)
  * [__](photos\\fib-upc\\albums.md)
  * [__](user\\mediafib.md)
  * [__](fib.upc.md)

[![](/sites/fib/files/images/banner-suport-fib.jpg)](index.md)

## Contact with us

Your name *

Your e-mail address *

Subject *

Category * \- Please choose -IT ServicesSuggestionsCongratulationsAcademic
InformationMobility InformationMasters InformationSchool InformationNews for
FIB websiteComplaints

Message *

Leave this field blank

© Facultat d'Informàtica de Barcelona - Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya -
[Website Disclaimer](en\\website-disclaimer.md) \- [Privacy
Settings](en\\studies\\masters\\master-informatics-
engineering\\curriculum\\competences.md)

